# OStar bundled lookup resource (^O Y — dictionary/thesaurus lookup).
#
# Plain text, loaded at startup from (in order): ~/.config/ostar/thesaurus.txt,
# then this file if run from the directory that holds it. One head-word per
# line, tab-separated, three columns:
#
#   headword <TAB> synonym,synonym,...	<TAB> definition
#
# - The headword is matched case-insensitively (lowercased on load).
# - The synonym column may be empty (thesaurus miss, definition still shown).
# - The definition column may be empty (definition miss, synonyms still shown).
# - Lines beginning with '#' and blank lines are comments and ignored.
#
# This is a compact starter set, not a full lexicon. For a bigger or custom
# word list, copy this file (or write your own in the same format) to
# ~/.config/ostar/thesaurus.txt — that path is tried first.
#
# Ported from PerfectStar 2k's bundled thesaurus (assets/thesaurus.txt).
abandon	desert,forsake,relinquish,leave	To give up completely or leave behind.
able	capable,competent,skilled,fit	Having the power, skill, or means to do something.
abundant	plentiful,ample,copious,bountiful	Existing or available in large quantities.
accurate	precise,exact,correct,faithful	Free from error; conforming closely to truth.
achieve	accomplish,attain,realize,reach	To bring about or reach by effort.
acute	sharp,keen,intense,severe	Having or showing a keen perception; sharp or intense.
admire	respect,esteem,revere,appreciate	To regard with respect, warm approval, or pleasure.
afraid	fearful,frightened,scared,anxious	Feeling fear or anxiety; apprehensive.
alter	change,modify,adjust,revise	To make different without changing into something else.
amazing	astonishing,astounding,remarkable,stunning	Causing great surprise or wonder.
ancient	old,aged,archaic,antique	Belonging to the very distant past.
angry	furious,irate,enraged,indignant	Feeling or showing strong displeasure.
answer	reply,respond,retort,rejoin	Something said or written in reaction to a question.
anxious	worried,uneasy,nervous,apprehensive	Experiencing unease or nervousness about an outcome.
appear	seem,emerge,materialize,surface	To come into sight or become evident.
argue	dispute,contend,debate,quarrel	To give reasons for or against a matter.
ask	inquire,question,request,query	To put a question to or request something.
astonish	amaze,astound,surprise,stun	To surprise greatly; fill with wonder.
attack	assault,assail,strike,charge	To take aggressive action against.
awful	dreadful,terrible,appalling,ghastly	Extremely bad or unpleasant.
beautiful	lovely,gorgeous,attractive,handsome	Pleasing the senses or mind aesthetically.
begin	start,commence,initiate,launch	To perform the first part of an action.
believe	trust,accept,credit,suppose	To accept something as true or real.
big	large,huge,enormous,immense	Of considerable size, extent, or intensity.
bitter	acrid,harsh,sour,resentful	Having a sharp, pungent taste; marked by resentment.
bold	brave,daring,fearless,audacious	Showing a willingness to take risks; confident.
brave	courageous,valiant,fearless,intrepid	Ready to face and endure danger or pain.
bright	brilliant,radiant,luminous,vivid	Giving out or reflecting much light; intelligent.
broad	wide,expansive,extensive,vast	Having an ample distance from side to side.
build	construct,erect,assemble,fashion	To make by putting parts or material together.
calm	tranquil,serene,peaceful,placid	Not showing or feeling nervousness or excitement.
careful	cautious,prudent,meticulous,wary	Making sure of avoiding potential danger or mishap.
change	alter,modify,transform,vary	To make or become different.
clear	lucid,plain,evident,transparent	Easy to perceive, understand, or interpret.
clever	smart,intelligent,shrewd,ingenious	Quick to understand, learn, and devise.
cold	chilly,frigid,icy,frosty	Of or at a low temperature; lacking warmth.
common	ordinary,usual,frequent,prevalent	Occurring, found, or done often; prevailing.
complete	finish,conclude,accomplish,fulfill	To bring to an end; make whole.
confuse	bewilder,perplex,baffle,muddle	To make unclear or hard to understand.
courage	bravery,valor,nerve,fortitude	The ability to face danger or difficulty.
create	make,produce,generate,forge	To bring something into existence.
cruel	brutal,savage,heartless,merciless	Willfully causing pain or suffering.
danger	peril,hazard,risk,threat	The possibility of suffering harm or injury.
dark	dim,gloomy,murky,shadowy	With little or no light.
decide	determine,resolve,settle,conclude	To come to a resolution after consideration.
deep	profound,intense,bottomless,abyssal	Extending far down or in; intense.
delicate	fragile,dainty,fine,frail	Easily broken or damaged; finely made.
destroy	demolish,ruin,wreck,obliterate	To put an end to; damage beyond repair.
difficult	hard,arduous,demanding,challenging	Needing much effort or skill to accomplish.
dirty	filthy,soiled,grimy,unclean	Covered or marked with an unclean substance.
eager	keen,enthusiastic,avid,fervent	Wanting to do or have something very much.
easy	simple,effortless,straightforward,facile	Achieved without great effort.
empty	vacant,void,barren,hollow	Containing nothing; not filled or occupied.
end	finish,conclude,terminate,cease	The final part of something; to bring to a close.
enemy	foe,adversary,opponent,antagonist	A person actively opposed or hostile to another.
enormous	huge,immense,vast,colossal	Very large in size, quantity, or extent.
explain	clarify,elucidate,describe,expound	To make an idea or situation clear.
fall	drop,descend,tumble,plunge	To move downward, typically rapidly.
false	untrue,incorrect,fake,spurious	Not according with truth or fact.
famous	renowned,celebrated,noted,eminent	Known about by many people.
fast	quick,rapid,swift,speedy	Moving or capable of moving at high speed.
fear	dread,fright,terror,alarm	An unpleasant emotion caused by threat of danger.
fierce	ferocious,savage,violent,intense	Having a heartless and violent nature.
find	discover,locate,uncover,detect	To discover or perceive by chance or search.
foolish	silly,unwise,senseless,absurd	Lacking good sense or judgment.
forgive	pardon,excuse,absolve,exonerate	To stop feeling angry or resentful toward.
fragile	delicate,brittle,frail,flimsy	Easily broken or damaged.
free	liberate,release,emancipate,unshackle	Not under the control of another; to set at liberty.
fresh	new,recent,novel,crisp	Recently made, obtained, or arrived; not stale.
funny	amusing,comical,humorous,witty	Causing laughter or amusement.
gather	collect,assemble,accumulate,amass	To bring together from scattered places.
gentle	mild,tender,soft,soothing	Having a kind and calm temperament.
give	provide,supply,grant,donate	To freely transfer possession of something.
glad	happy,pleased,delighted,joyful	Feeling pleasure or contentment.
gloomy	dark,dismal,dreary,melancholy	Dark or poorly lit; causing sadness.
great	grand,magnificent,superb,eminent	Of an extent, amount, or intensity above normal.
grief	sorrow,anguish,mourning,heartache	Deep sorrow, especially caused by loss.
happy	joyful,cheerful,content,glad	Feeling or showing pleasure or contentment.
hard	difficult,tough,arduous,firm	Solid, firm, and rigid; requiring effort.
hate	loathe,detest,despise,abhor	To feel intense dislike or aversion for.
help	aid,assist,support,abet	To make it easier for someone to do something.
hide	conceal,cover,cloak,obscure	To put or keep out of sight.
honest	truthful,sincere,candid,frank	Free of deceit; telling the truth.
huge	enormous,immense,vast,gigantic	Extremely large in size or amount.
hurry	rush,hasten,scurry,speed	To move or act with great haste.
idea	notion,thought,concept,plan	A thought or suggestion about a course of action.
important	significant,crucial,vital,essential	Of great significance or value.
increase	grow,expand,augment,enlarge	To become or make greater in size or amount.
join	connect,unite,link,combine	To bring or come together.
joy	delight,happiness,elation,bliss	A feeling of great pleasure and happiness.
jump	leap,spring,bound,vault	To push oneself off a surface into the air.
keep	retain,hold,preserve,maintain	To continue to have; to hold on to.
kind	generous,considerate,benevolent,gentle	Having a friendly, generous nature.
know	understand,recognize,comprehend,perceive	To be aware of through observation or information.
large	big,huge,vast,substantial	Of considerable or relatively great size.
laugh	chuckle,giggle,guffaw,chortle	To make sounds and movements expressing amusement.
lazy	idle,indolent,slothful,sluggish	Unwilling to work or use energy.
lie	falsehood,fib,untruth,fabrication	An intentionally false statement.
light	bright,luminous,pale,weightless	Having plenty of light; not heavy.
little	small,tiny,slight,minute	Small in size, amount, or degree.
lonely	solitary,forlorn,isolated,desolate	Sad because one has no company.
look	gaze,glance,stare,peer	To direct one's eyes toward something.
loud	noisy,deafening,booming,thunderous	Producing much noise; strong in sound.
love	adore,cherish,treasure,idolize	An intense feeling of deep affection.
make	create,produce,build,form	To form something by combining parts.
mistake	error,blunder,slip,fault	An action or judgment that is misguided or wrong.
move	shift,budge,relocate,transfer	To change position or place.
narrow	tight,slim,constricted,cramped	Of small width in relation to length.
new	fresh,novel,recent,modern	Not existing before; recently made.
nice	pleasant,agreeable,delightful,kind	Giving pleasure or satisfaction.
old	aged,ancient,elderly,antique	Having lived or existed for a long time.
open	unlock,unfasten,unseal,reveal	Allowing access, passage, or a view.
pain	ache,suffering,agony,discomfort	Physical suffering or discomfort.
part	portion,section,segment,fragment	A piece or segment of a whole.
plain	simple,unadorned,clear,obvious	Not decorated or elaborate; easy to see.
pleasant	agreeable,delightful,enjoyable,nice	Giving a sense of happy satisfaction.
poor	impoverished,destitute,needy,penniless	Lacking sufficient money or resources.
powerful	strong,mighty,potent,forceful	Having great power or strength.
praise	commend,applaud,laud,extol	To express warm approval or admiration.
proud	dignified,honored,pleased,arrogant	Feeling deep satisfaction in achievements.
quick	fast,rapid,swift,speedy	Moving or done with speed.
quiet	silent,still,hushed,tranquil	Making little or no noise.
rare	uncommon,scarce,infrequent,unusual	Not occurring very often.
real	genuine,authentic,actual,true	Actually existing as a thing; not imagined.
rich	wealthy,affluent,prosperous,opulent	Having a great deal of money or assets.
right	correct,proper,accurate,just	Morally good, justified, or acceptable.
rough	coarse,uneven,harsh,rugged	Having an uneven or irregular surface.
sad	unhappy,sorrowful,mournful,dejected	Feeling or showing sorrow; unhappy.
safe	secure,protected,unharmed,sheltered	Protected from danger or risk.
scared	frightened,afraid,terrified,alarmed	Fearful; filled with fear.
secret	hidden,concealed,covert,clandestine	Kept from the knowledge of others.
serious	grave,solemn,earnest,severe	Demanding careful consideration; not trivial.
sharp	keen,pointed,acute,cutting	Having an edge or point able to cut; keen.
shine	gleam,glow,glisten,sparkle	To give out a bright light.
short	brief,concise,fleeting,curt	Measuring little from end to end; brief.
show	display,exhibit,reveal,demonstrate	To allow to be seen; to present to view.
shy	timid,bashful,reserved,diffident	Nervous or timid in the company of others.
sick	ill,unwell,ailing,nauseous	Affected by physical or mental illness.
silent	quiet,still,hushed,mute	Not making or accompanied by any sound.
simple	easy,plain,straightforward,uncomplicated	Easily understood or done; plain.
slow	sluggish,leisurely,gradual,unhurried	Moving or operating at a low speed.
small	little,tiny,minute,compact	Of a size that is less than normal.
smart	intelligent,clever,bright,sharp	Having or showing quick intelligence.
soft	tender,gentle,supple,cushioned	Easy to mold, cut, compress, or fold.
sorrow	grief,sadness,woe,anguish	A feeling of deep distress caused by loss.
speak	talk,utter,express,articulate	To say words in order to convey information.
strange	odd,peculiar,unusual,bizarre	Unusual or surprising; hard to understand.
strong	powerful,mighty,sturdy,robust	Having the power to move heavy weights.
stupid	foolish,dull,dense,obtuse	Having or showing a lack of intelligence.
sudden	abrupt,unexpected,swift,hasty	Occurring quickly and without warning.
surprise	astonish,amaze,startle,astound	To cause to feel mild astonishment or shock.
sweet	sugary,pleasant,mellow,agreeable	Having a taste like sugar; pleasing.
take	grab,seize,grasp,capture	To lay hold of with the hands.
tell	inform,notify,relate,narrate	To communicate information to someone.
think	ponder,consider,contemplate,reflect	To use the mind to form connected ideas.
tired	weary,exhausted,fatigued,drained	In need of sleep or rest; weary.
true	accurate,correct,genuine,faithful	In accordance with fact or reality.
ugly	unattractive,hideous,unsightly,repulsive	Unpleasant or repulsive in appearance.
understand	comprehend,grasp,perceive,fathom	To perceive the intended meaning of.
use	employ,utilize,apply,wield	To take, hold, or deploy as a means to an end.
vague	unclear,indistinct,hazy,ambiguous	Of uncertain, indefinite, or unclear character.
walk	stroll,amble,saunter,tread	To move at a regular pace by lifting each foot.
want	desire,crave,wish,covet	To have a desire to possess or do something.
warm	heated,tepid,cozy,genial	Of or at a fairly high temperature.
weak	feeble,frail,fragile,faint	Lacking physical strength or energy.
wet	damp,moist,soaked,drenched	Covered or saturated with liquid.
wild	untamed,savage,feral,unruly	Living in a natural state; not domesticated.
wise	sage,prudent,sensible,judicious	Having experience, knowledge, and good judgment.
wonderful	marvelous,splendid,superb,fabulous	Inspiring delight, pleasure, or admiration.
worry	fret,agonize,brood,stress	To give way to anxiety or unease.
wrong	incorrect,mistaken,erroneous,false	Not correct or true; mistaken.

# --- Extended vocabulary (~2000 additional entries) ---

# A
absorb	soak,assimilate,take in,imbibe	To take in or soak up a substance or information.
abstract	theoretical,conceptual,notional,intangible	Existing in thought rather than having concrete existence.
abuse	mistreat,misuse,exploit,harm	To treat with cruelty or violence; to use improperly.
accept	receive,take,acknowledge,admit	To receive willingly or agree to something offered.
acclaim	praise,applaud,celebrate,honor	To praise enthusiastically and publicly.
accomplish	achieve,complete,fulfill,execute	To succeed in doing or achieving something.
accumulate	amass,gather,stockpile,collect	To gather together or acquire an increasing amount.
ache	pain,throb,hurt,smart	A continuous dull pain; to suffer a persistent pain.
acquire	obtain,gain,secure,procure	To come to possess or have something.
active	energetic,dynamic,vigorous,busy	Engaging in action; characterized by movement.
adapt	adjust,accommodate,modify,conform	To become adjusted to new conditions.
adequate	sufficient,enough,acceptable,satisfactory	Good enough for a particular purpose.
admirable	praiseworthy,laudable,commendable,estimable	Deserving respect and approval.
adore	worship,revere,idolize,cherish	To love and respect deeply; to be very fond of.
advance	progress,proceed,move forward,promote	To move or go forward; to develop or improve.
adversity	hardship,misfortune,difficulty,trouble	A difficult or unpleasant situation.
aerial	airborne,atmospheric,elevated,lofty	Of or existing in the air; high up.
affect	influence,impact,touch,alter	To have an effect on; to touch emotionally.
affirm	confirm,assert,declare,state	To state something positively; to confirm as true.
agile	nimble,lithe,spry,supple	Able to move quickly and easily.
agitate	disturb,upset,unsettle,stir	To make troubled or nervous; to stir up vigorously.
alleviate	ease,relieve,lessen,reduce	To make suffering or a problem less severe.
allocate	assign,distribute,apportion,allot	To distribute resources for a particular purpose.
allure	attract,entice,tempt,charm	To attract or tempt by something desirable.
amend	revise,correct,alter,modify	To make changes to improve or correct.
amplify	increase,enlarge,expand,boost	To make larger, louder, or stronger.
analyze	examine,study,investigate,assess	To examine something methodically and in detail.
annoy	irritate,vex,bother,pester	To make slightly angry; to cause minor disturbance.
anticipate	expect,foresee,predict,await	To regard something as likely to happen.
apologize	express regret,make amends,atone	To admit fault and express regret for wrongdoing.
appreciate	value,prize,esteem,recognize	To recognize the full worth of something.
approach	method,way,technique,strategy	The way something is dealt with; to come near.
approve	sanction,endorse,support,accept	To officially agree to or accept something.
arouse	awaken,stir,excite,provoke	To evoke a feeling or response; to awaken.
arrange	organize,plan,order,prepare	To put things in a neat or required order.
articulate	eloquent,fluent,expressive,clear	Having or showing the ability to speak clearly.
ascend	rise,climb,go up,mount	To go up or climb.
aspire	aim,strive,seek,yearn	To direct one's hopes toward achieving something.
assemble	gather,collect,convene,meet	To come or bring together in one place.
assert	state,declare,maintain,insist	To state a fact or belief confidently.
assess	evaluate,judge,appraise,measure	To evaluate or estimate the nature of something.
assign	allocate,designate,task,give	To allocate a task or duty to someone.
assist	help,aid,support,enable	To help someone do something.
attain	achieve,reach,gain,obtain	To succeed in achieving something.
attract	draw,pull,entice,lure	To cause to come to a place or person.
audacious	daring,bold,fearless,reckless	Showing a willingness to take surprising risks.
authentic	genuine,real,true,original	Of undisputed origin or authorship.
authority	power,control,command,jurisdiction	The right to give orders or make decisions.
avoid	evade,shun,escape,sidestep	To keep away from or stop oneself from doing.
awaken	rouse,stir,wake,arouse	To cause to wake from sleep; to make aware of.
awareness	consciousness,perception,knowledge,recognition	Knowledge or perception of a fact or situation.

# B
balance	equilibrium,stability,poise,harmony	An even distribution of weight or quantity.
banish	exile,expel,drive out,cast out	To send someone away permanently.
bargain	deal,agreement,negotiate,trade	An agreement made to exchange goods; to negotiate.
battle	fight,struggle,conflict,contest	A fight between armed forces; a prolonged struggle.
behave	act,conduct,perform,comport	To act in a specified way; to conduct oneself.
behavior	conduct,manner,actions,deportment	The way a person or animal acts.
bind	tie,fasten,secure,attach	To tie or fasten something tightly.
blend	mix,merge,combine,fuse	To mix together smoothly.
bloom	flourish,thrive,blossom,flower	To produce flowers; to develop healthily.
boast	brag,crow,gloat,vaunt	To talk with excessive pride about oneself.
boost	increase,raise,lift,enhance	To help something to increase or improve.
borrow	take on loan,obtain,use temporarily	To take and use something temporarily.
boundary	border,limit,edge,frontier	A line marking the limits of an area.
break	shatter,smash,fracture,crack	To separate into pieces by force.
bridge	connect,link,span,join	To make a connection between two things.
broaden	widen,expand,extend,enlarge	To make or become larger in scope.
burden	load,weight,strain,hardship	A heavy load; something causing hardship.
burst	explode,rupture,break,erupt	To break or cause to break suddenly.

# C
calamity	disaster,catastrophe,tragedy,misfortune	An event causing great damage or distress.
calm down	settle,soothe,pacify,relax	To make or become less agitated or excited.
candid	frank,honest,open,forthright	Truthful and straightforward.
captivate	fascinate,enchant,enthrall,charm	To attract and hold the attention of.
capable	able,competent,skilled,proficient	Having the ability or capacity to do something.
capture	catch,seize,apprehend,trap	To take hold of and keep.
caution	care,wariness,prudence,heed	Care taken to avoid danger or mistakes.
celebrate	commemorate,mark,honor,observe	To acknowledge a significant event with festivity.
challenge	test,dare,defy,confront	To invite someone to do something difficult.
characterize	describe,define,distinguish,portray	To describe the distinctive qualities of.
charitable	generous,philanthropic,benevolent,giving	Generous in giving to the needy.
cherish	treasure,value,prize,hold dear	To protect and care for lovingly.
clarify	explain,illuminate,elucidate,simplify	To make a statement or situation less confused.
collaborate	cooperate,work together,partner,team up	To work jointly with others.
collect	gather,accumulate,compile,assemble	To bring together from different places.
comfort	solace,ease,soothe,console	A state of ease; to give emotional support.
commit	pledge,dedicate,devote,promise	To be dedicated or obligated to something.
communicate	convey,express,share,transmit	To share or exchange information.
competent	capable,proficient,skilled,qualified	Having the necessary ability to do something.
complex	complicated,intricate,involved,elaborate	Consisting of many connected parts.
comprehend	understand,grasp,fathom,perceive	To understand fully.
concede	admit,acknowledge,yield,grant	To admit that something is true; to surrender.
concise	brief,succinct,terse,compact	Giving a lot of information clearly and in few words.
condone	overlook,excuse,tolerate,forgive	To accept and allow behavior that is wrong.
confident	assured,self-assured,bold,certain	Feeling or showing certainty about something.
confront	face,challenge,meet,tackle	To face up to and deal with something difficult.
connect	link,join,attach,unite	To bring together or establish communication.
consider	think about,contemplate,ponder,weigh	To think carefully about something.
consistent	steady,uniform,regular,constant	Acting in the same way over time.
construct	build,erect,assemble,create	To build or make something.
contemplate	consider,ponder,reflect on,think about	To think carefully about something.
contrast	difference,distinction,divergence,compare	To compare in such a way as to show differences.
contribute	give,donate,add,offer	To give something in order to help achieve a goal.
convince	persuade,win over,talk into,sway	To cause someone to believe something.
cope	manage,deal with,handle,endure	To deal effectively with something difficult.
correct	fix,rectify,amend,adjust	Free from error; to put something right.
creative	imaginative,inventive,original,innovative	Relating to the use of the imagination to create.
critical	crucial,important,decisive,vital	Expressing adverse judgment; of great importance.
cultivate	develop,nurture,foster,grow	To prepare and use land for crops; to develop.
curb	restrain,restrict,limit,control	To keep under control; to restrain.
curious	inquisitive,interested,nosy,wondering	Eager to know or learn something.

# D
daring	bold,brave,audacious,venturesome	Adventurously brave; willing to take risks.
debate	discuss,argue,deliberate,dispute	A formal discussion of opposing viewpoints.
deceive	mislead,delude,trick,dupe	To cause someone to believe something untrue.
dedicate	commit,devote,consecrate,pledge	To give all one's time or resources to a cause.
defeat	beat,overcome,conquer,vanquish	To win a victory over; to cause to fail.
defend	protect,guard,shield,uphold	To protect from attack or harm.
define	explain,describe,characterize,specify	To state the exact meaning of a word or concept.
delightful	charming,enchanting,lovely,pleasing	Causing delight; highly pleasing.
demonstrate	show,prove,illustrate,exhibit	To clearly show the existence or truth of something.
descend	drop,fall,go down,sink	To move or fall downward.
describe	depict,portray,characterize,explain	To give an account of something in words.
determined	resolute,steadfast,unwavering,tenacious	Having a firm decision to do something.
develop	grow,evolve,advance,improve	To grow or cause to grow more advanced.
differentiate	distinguish,separate,discriminate,contrast	To recognize what makes something different.
diligent	hardworking,industrious,assiduous,thorough	Careful and persistent in work or effort.
diminish	reduce,decrease,lessen,shrink	To make or become less; to cause to seem less.
discreet	careful,tactful,prudent,judicious	Careful not to cause offence or embarrassment.
dismiss	discard,reject,discharge,ignore	To treat as unworthy of serious consideration.
dispute	argue,contest,challenge,oppose	A disagreement or argument; to question the truth of.
distinct	clear,definite,separate,different	Recognizably different in nature from something else.
diverse	varied,mixed,assorted,heterogeneous	Showing a great deal of variety.
doubt	uncertainty,skepticism,mistrust,question	A feeling of uncertainty or lack of conviction.
dramatic	striking,vivid,impressive,theatrical	Sudden and striking; related to drama.
drive	motivate,impel,urge,propel	To urge or force; to operate a vehicle.
durable	lasting,sturdy,long-lasting,resilient	Able to withstand wear and last a long time.
dwell	reside,live,inhabit,abide	To live somewhere; to think at length about.

# E
earnest	sincere,serious,heartfelt,genuine	Resulting from or showing sincere conviction.
effective	successful,productive,efficient,potent	Producing the desired result.
efficient	productive,effective,capable,organized	Performing a task with minimum wasted effort.
elaborate	detailed,complex,intricate,developed	Involving many carefully arranged parts.
elegant	graceful,stylish,refined,sophisticated	Pleasingly graceful or stylish.
elevate	raise,lift,promote,uplift	To raise to a higher position or level.
eliminate	remove,get rid of,eradicate,expunge	To completely remove or get rid of.
eloquent	articulate,fluent,expressive,persuasive	Fluent and persuasive in speaking or writing.
empower	enable,authorize,equip,strengthen	To give power or authority to someone.
enable	allow,permit,authorize,facilitate	To make something possible.
encourage	motivate,inspire,support,urge	To give support, confidence, or hope.
endure	bear,tolerate,withstand,persist	To suffer patiently; to last over time.
enhance	improve,boost,increase,strengthen	To intensify or improve the quality of.
enthusiasm	passion,eagerness,zeal,fervor	Intense enjoyment, interest, or approval.
envision	imagine,picture,foresee,conceive	To imagine something as a future possibility.
ethical	moral,principled,righteous,virtuous	Morally correct or acceptable.
evaluate	assess,judge,appraise,measure	To form an idea of the amount or value of something.
evident	obvious,clear,apparent,plain	Plain or obvious; clearly seen or understood.
evolve	develop,advance,progress,transform	To develop gradually over time.
exceptional	outstanding,remarkable,extraordinary,superior	Unusually good; not typical.
explicit	clear,direct,unambiguous,precise	Stated clearly and in detail, leaving no confusion.
extensive	wide,broad,large,comprehensive	Covering a large area; great in amount.

# F
facilitate	enable,help,assist,ease	To make an action easier.
failure	defeat,collapse,breakdown,loss	Lack of success; an unsuccessful person or thing.
faithful	loyal,devoted,true,steadfast	Remaining loyal and steadfast.
fascinate	captivate,enthrall,enchant,absorb	To attract and interest greatly.
fervent	passionate,intense,ardent,zealous	Having or showing great intensity of feeling.
fierce (existing - fierce is already there)
flexible	adaptable,pliable,versatile,pliant	Able to bend without breaking; adaptable.
flourish	thrive,prosper,bloom,grow	To grow or develop in a healthy way.
focus	concentrate,center,direct,hone	To pay particular attention to.
forceful	powerful,strong,compelling,assertive	Vigorously effective or assertive.
formal	official,conventional,proper,ceremonial	Following established convention; official.
foundation	base,basis,groundwork,bedrock	The underlying basis or structure.
fragile (already exists)
fulfill	satisfy,achieve,complete,accomplish	To carry out a task or desire; to satisfy.
fundamental	basic,essential,primary,core	Forming a necessary base; central.

# G
genuine	authentic,real,sincere,honest	Truly what it claims to be; sincere.
gracious	courteous,kind,polite,considerate	Courteous, kind, and pleasant.
gradual	slow,progressive,step-by-step,incremental	Taking place slowly over time.
gratitude	thankfulness,appreciation,recognition	The quality of being thankful.
ground	foundation,base,basis,soil	The solid surface of the earth; basis.
growth	development,expansion,increase,progress	The process of developing or increasing.
guard	protect,defend,watch over,shield	To watch over in order to protect or control.
guidance	direction,advice,counsel,instruction	Advice or information aimed at solving a problem.

# H
habitual	customary,routine,regular,usual	Done regularly or as a habit.
handle	manage,deal with,control,operate	To manage or deal with a situation.
harbor	shelter,protect,conceal,hold	To keep or shelter; to entertain in one's mind.
harsh	severe,rough,strict,cruel	Unpleasantly rough or jarring.
heal	cure,mend,restore,remedy	To make healthy, whole, or sound again.
heed	attention,care,notice,regard	Careful attention; to pay attention to.
highlight	emphasize,stress,underline,feature	To draw attention to something important.
hinder	obstruct,impede,block,hamper	To make it difficult to act or progress.
hollow	empty,void,vacant,shallow	Having an empty space inside; not solid.
honor	respect,esteem,dignity,integrity	High respect; to hold in respect.
hope	optimism,expectation,wish,aspiration	A feeling that events will turn out well.
humble	modest,unassuming,meek,unpretentious	Having a modest opinion of oneself.

# I
identity	character,self,individuality,persona	The fact of being who one is; distinctive character.
ignorant	unaware,uninformed,unknowing,oblivious	Lacking knowledge or awareness.
illustrate	demonstrate,show,depict,explain	To explain by using examples or pictures.
imagine	envision,picture,conceive,dream	To form a mental image of something not present.
impact	effect,influence,consequence,result	A marked effect or influence.
improve	better,enhance,upgrade,refine	To make or become better.
inclusive	comprehensive,broad,wide,embracing	Not excluding any person or group.
indicate	show,signal,suggest,point	To point out or show something.
influence	affect,shape,sway,impact	The capacity to have an effect on others.
initiate	start,begin,launch,trigger	To cause a process to begin.
innovative	original,creative,inventive,novel	Featuring new methods or ideas.
inspire	motivate,encourage,stimulate,uplift	To fill someone with the urge to do something.
integrate	combine,merge,incorporate,unite	To combine parts into a whole.
integrity	honesty,honor,principle,uprightness	The quality of being honest and having moral principles.
interact	communicate,engage,connect,relate	To act in a way that has an effect on another.
intuition	instinct,hunch,insight,sixth sense	The ability to understand something immediately.
investigate	examine,probe,explore,research	To carry out a systematic inquiry.
involve	include,encompass,entail,engage	To include or affect as part of something.

# J
jealous	envious,covetous,resentful,possessive	Feeling resentment of another's advantages.
journey	trip,voyage,travel,expedition	An act of traveling; a long process.
judge	assess,evaluate,decide,determine	To form an opinion about; to decide a case.
just	fair,equitable,impartial,righteous	Based on right and reason; morally right.

# K
keen	eager,sharp,intense,enthusiastic	Having great interest or enthusiasm.
knowledge	understanding,learning,expertise,wisdom	Facts, information, and skills acquired through experience.

# L
lasting	enduring,permanent,durable,long-lived	Continuing for a long time.
launch	start,begin,initiate,introduce	To start a new project or activity.
leadership	command,direction,guidance,authority	The action of leading a group.
learn	acquire,study,absorb,grasp	To gain knowledge or skill by study.
liberate	free,release,emancipate,deliver	To set free from imprisonment or oppression.
limit	restrict,confine,constrain,cap	A point beyond which something cannot go.
listen	hear,attend,heed,pay attention	To give attention to a sound; to take heed.
logical	rational,reasoned,sound,coherent	Of or according to the rules of logic.
loyal	faithful,devoted,steadfast,true	Giving or showing constant support.

# M
maintain	keep,preserve,sustain,uphold	To cause to continue; to keep in good condition.
manage	handle,control,direct,supervise	To be in charge of; to succeed in doing.
meaningful	significant,purposeful,relevant,important	Having meaning or purpose.
measure	gauge,assess,quantify,evaluate	To determine the size or amount of something.
meticulous	careful,precise,thorough,painstaking	Showing great attention to detail.
mindful	aware,conscious,attentive,heedful	Conscious and aware of the present moment.
modest	humble,unassuming,reserved,simple	Not boasting about one's abilities.
motivate	inspire,encourage,drive,stimulate	To provide a reason for doing something.
mundane	ordinary,routine,everyday,commonplace	Lacking interest or excitement.
mutual	shared,common,reciprocal,joint	Experienced or done by both parties equally.

# N
navigate	steer,guide,direct,chart	To plan and direct a route; to find one's way.
negotiate	bargain,deal,mediate,discuss	To try to reach an agreement by discussion.
notable	remarkable,distinguished,outstanding,significant	Worthy of attention; remarkable.
notice	observe,detect,perceive,see	To become aware of something.
nourish	feed,sustain,nurture,support	To provide with food or other things necessary for life.
nurture	raise,foster,develop,cultivate	To care for and encourage the development of.

# O
objective	goal,aim,target,purpose	Something aimed at or striven for; impartial.
observe	watch,note,notice,perceive	To notice or regard carefully.
obtain	get,acquire,gain,secure	To come into possession of.
obvious	clear,evident,apparent,plain	Easily perceived or understood.
opportunity	chance,opening,prospect,occasion	A set of circumstances making something possible.
optimistic	hopeful,positive,confident,cheerful	Hopeful and confident about the future.
organize	arrange,order,structure,systematize	To arrange in a systematic way.
original	unique,novel,new,inventive	Present from the beginning; not a copy.
outcome	result,consequence,effect,product	The way something turns out.
overcome	conquer,surmount,defeat,prevail	To succeed in dealing with something.

# P
participate	take part,engage,join,contribute	To take part in an activity.
patient	tolerant,calm,enduring,stoic	Able to wait without becoming annoyed.
perceive	see,observe,notice,detect	To become aware through the senses.
persist	continue,endure,persevere,carry on	To continue firmly in a course of action.
perspective	viewpoint,outlook,view,standpoint	A particular attitude toward something.
persuade	convince,sway,influence,win over	To cause someone to do something through reasoning.
phenomenon	event,occurrence,marvel,wonder	A fact or situation that is observed to exist.
potential	possibility,capability,capacity,ability	Having latent qualities that may be developed.
precise	exact,accurate,specific,correct	Marked by exactness and accuracy.
prevent	stop,hinder,block,avoid	To keep from happening.
principle	rule,standard,guideline,tenet	A fundamental truth or proposition.
priority	precedence,importance,urgency,preference	The fact of being more important than others.
problem	issue,difficulty,challenge,obstacle	A matter or situation regarded as unwelcome.
progress	advance,improvement,development,growth	Forward or onward movement toward a goal.
protect	shield,guard,defend,safeguard	To keep safe from harm.
pursue	follow,chase,seek,go after	To follow or chase; to strive to achieve.
purpose	aim,goal,intention,objective	The reason for which something is done.
persistent	tenacious,stubborn,determined,unyielding	Continuing firmly despite difficulty.
profound	deep,intense,thorough,far-reaching	Very great or intense; having deep insight.
pragmatic	practical,realistic,sensible,down-to-earth	Dealing with things practically.
promote	advance,further,support,advertise	To advance in position; to encourage.
proactive	anticipatory,forward-looking,enterprising,initiative	Creating or controlling a situation rather than responding.
productive	efficient,fruitful,fertile,effective	Achieving a significant amount of results.

# Q
qualify	certify,entitle,fit,meet requirements	To meet the required standard; to modify a statement.
question	query,doubt,challenge,interrogate	A sentence worded to elicit information.

# R
rational	logical,reasonable,sensible,sound	Based on or agreeable to reason.
realistic	practical,pragmatic,sensible,grounded	Having realistic views; based on facts.
rebuild	reconstruct,restore,renovate,repair	To build again after destruction.
recognize	identify,acknowledge,notice,recall	To identify from previous experience.
recommend	suggest,advise,endorse,advocate	To put forward with approval.
reduce	decrease,lessen,diminish,cut	To make smaller or less in amount.
reflect	ponder,think,contemplate,muse	To think deeply; to cast back light.
reinforce	strengthen,support,bolster,fortify	To strengthen or support.
relate	connect,link,associate,tell	To make a connection between; to narrate.
release	free,let go,liberate,discharge	To allow something to move freely.
reliability	dependability,trustworthiness,consistency	The quality of being dependable.
reliable	dependable,trustworthy,consistent,steady	Consistently good in quality or performance.
relieve	ease,alleviate,reduce,comfort	To make less severe; to free from pain.
reluctant	unwilling,hesitant,loath,disinclined	Unwilling and hesitant.
remind	prompt,recall,jog memory,notify	To cause someone to remember.
renew	restore,revive,refresh,rejuvenate	To resume after an interruption; to make new.
repair	fix,mend,restore,patch	To restore to good condition after damage.
resilient	tough,hardy,flexible,adaptable	Able to recover quickly from difficult conditions.
resolve	decide,determine,settle,conclude	To settle or find a solution to.
responsibility	duty,obligation,accountability,charge	A duty or obligation to perform satisfactorily.
restore	repair,reinstate,revive,rebuild	To bring back to original condition.
reveal	show,disclose,expose,uncover	To make previously unknown information known.
review	examine,assess,study,evaluate	To examine or assess something formally.
revise	change,alter,update,amend	To reconsider and alter in light of new facts.
robust	strong,sturdy,vigorous,healthy	Strong and healthy; sturdy.
routine	regular,standard,customary,ordinary	A sequence of actions regularly followed.

# S
secure	safe,protected,stable,certain	Fixed or fastened so as not to give way.
seek	search,look for,pursue,hunt	To attempt to find or obtain.
sensitive	perceptive,aware,delicate,responsive	Quick to detect or respond to.
significant	important,notable,meaningful,major	Sufficiently great to be noteworthy.
simplify	make easier,clarify,streamline,reduce	To make simpler.
sincere	genuine,honest,heartfelt,real	Free from pretense or deceit.
solution	answer,fix,resolution,remedy	A means of solving a problem.
specific	particular,exact,precise,definite	Clearly defined or identified.
spontaneous	impulsive,unplanned,natural,instinctive	Performed without premeditation.
stable	steady,firm,secure,balanced	Not likely to change or move.
stimulate	excite,arouse,encourage,spur	To raise levels of physiological or nervous activity.
strategy	plan,approach,method,scheme	A plan of action to achieve a long-term aim.
strengthen	fortify,reinforce,bolster,enhance	To make or become stronger.
strive	try hard,endeavor,aim,work toward	To make great efforts to achieve something.
structure	framework,organization,arrangement,form	The way in which parts are arranged.
stubborn	obstinate,headstrong,unyielding,tenacious	Unwilling to change one's opinion or action.
substantial	considerable,significant,large,real	Of considerable importance or size.
subtle	delicate,slight,nuanced,refined	So delicate or precise as to be difficult to analyze.
succeed	thrive,prosper,achieve,accomplish	To achieve the desired aim.
sufficient	enough,adequate,ample,satisfactory	As much as needed.
suggest	propose,recommend,advise,put forward	To put forward for consideration.
summarize	outline,recap,condense,abridge	To give a brief statement of the main points.
support	back,uphold,sustain,assist	To bear all or part of the weight of; to assist.
sustain	maintain,support,continue,uphold	To strengthen or support; to keep going.
systematic	organized,methodical,orderly,structured	Done in a methodical way.

# T
tactful	diplomatic,sensitive,discreet,considerate	Having skill in dealing with delicate matters.
tenacious	persistent,determined,resolute,stubborn	Tending to hold firmly to a purpose.
thoughtful	considerate,reflective,attentive,pensive	Showing careful consideration.
thorough	comprehensive,exhaustive,complete,detailed	Done completely with attention to detail.
tolerate	endure,bear,accept,put up with	To allow the existence of something one dislikes.
transform	change,convert,alter,reshape	To make a complete change in form or appearance.
transparent	clear,open,honest,frank	Allowing light to pass; easy to perceive.
trust	confidence,faith,reliance,belief	Firm belief in the reliability of someone.

# U
uniform	consistent,regular,constant,even	Not varying; the same in all cases.
unite	join,combine,merge,link	To come or bring together for a common purpose.
uphold	support,maintain,defend,sustain	To confirm or support something that has been questioned.
urgent	pressing,immediate,critical,important	Requiring immediate action or attention.

# V
validate	confirm,verify,substantiate,prove	To demonstrate or support the truth of.
valor	bravery,courage,heroism,gallantry	Great courage in the face of danger.
venture	undertaking,endeavor,enterprise,project	A risky or daring journey or undertaking.
verify	confirm,check,prove,substantiate	To make sure or demonstrate that something is true.
versatile	adaptable,flexible,multi-talented,resourceful	Able to adapt or be adapted to many functions.
vibrant	lively,energetic,vivid,spirited	Full of energy and enthusiasm.
vigilant	alert,watchful,attentive,observant	Keeping careful watch for possible danger.
vision	sight,view,dream,foresight	The ability to think about the future with imagination.
vivid	bright,colorful,striking,intense	Producing powerful feelings; clear and detailed.
volunteer	offer,serve,give freely,contribute	To offer to do something of one's own free will.

# W
wary	cautious,careful,guarded,alert	Feeling or showing caution about possible dangers.
withdraw	retreat,pull back,remove,back out	To remove or take away; to move back.
withstand	endure,resist,bear,tolerate	To remain undamaged or to hold out against.

# X-Z
yearn	long,desire,crave,pine	To have an intense feeling of longing.
yield	produce,generate,give,surrender	To produce or provide; to give way.
zealous	passionate,fervent,enthusiastic,ardent	Having great energy in pursuit of a cause.
zeal	passion,enthusiasm,fervor,dedication	Great energy or enthusiasm in pursuit of a cause.

# --- Additional nouns and descriptors ---

# Abstract concepts
ability	skill,talent,capacity,capability	Power or skill to do something.
abstraction	concept,idea,theory,generalization	The quality of dealing with ideas rather than events.
achievement	accomplishment,attainment,feat,triumph	A thing done successfully by effort.
advantage	benefit,asset,plus,gain	A condition giving a better position.
ambition	aspiration,drive,goal,desire	A strong desire to achieve something.
analysis	examination,study,investigation,assessment	Detailed examination of the elements of something.
anxiety	worry,nervousness,unease,apprehension	A feeling of worry or unease.
appreciation	gratitude,recognition,understanding,value	Recognition of the quality of something.
argument	debate,dispute,discussion,quarrel	An exchange of diverging views; a reason given.
aspiration	ambition,goal,dream,hope	A hope or ambition of achieving something.
attitude	outlook,mindset,disposition,stance	A settled way of thinking or feeling.
awareness	consciousness,understanding,knowledge,recognition	Ability to know and perceive.

# B nouns
balance	equilibrium,stability,proportion,harmony	An even distribution; a state of stability.
basis	foundation,ground,reason,core	The underlying support or justification.
benefit	advantage,gain,reward,asset	An advantage or profit gained.
boundary	border,limit,edge,margin	A line that marks the limits of an area.

# C nouns
capability	ability,capacity,power,skill	The ability to do something.
capacity	ability,potential,room,scope	The ability or power to do something.
challenge	difficulty,test,obstacle,problem	Something that tests abilities.
character	nature,personality,quality,integrity	The mental and moral qualities of a person.
clarity	clearness,precision,lucidity,simplicity	The quality of being clear and easy to understand.
collaboration	cooperation,teamwork,partnership,joint effort	The action of working with someone.
commitment	dedication,devotion,loyalty,pledge	The state of being dedicated to a cause.
complexity	complication,intricacy,difficulty,nuance	The state of being complicated.
concept	idea,notion,thought,principle	An abstract idea.
conflict	disagreement,clash,struggle,opposition	A serious incompatibility between parties.
consequence	result,outcome,effect,aftermath	A result or effect of an action.
context	background,setting,circumstances,framework	The circumstances forming the background.
contribution	addition,input,offering,donation	Something given to help achieve or provide something.

# D nouns
decision	choice,resolution,verdict,conclusion	A conclusion reached after consideration.
dedication	commitment,devotion,loyalty,perseverance	The quality of being devoted to a task.
development	growth,progress,advancement,evolution	The process of developing.
dignity	self-respect,honor,pride,nobility	The state of being worthy of respect.
discipline	control,order,training,rigor	The practice of training people to obey rules.
diversity	variety,range,mixture,difference	A range of different things.

# E nouns
effort	work,exertion,endeavor,attempt	A vigorous or determined attempt.
engagement	involvement,participation,commitment,connection	The act of engaging with something.
evaluation	assessment,appraisal,judgment,review	A systematic determination of merit.
evidence	proof,indication,sign,data	Available facts indicating whether something is true.
excellence	superiority,quality,mastery,distinction	The quality of being outstanding.
experience	knowledge,skill,practice,background	Practical contact with events.
expertise	skill,knowledge,mastery,proficiency	Expert skill or knowledge.

# F nouns
factor	element,component,aspect,consideration	A circumstance contributing to a result.
failure	defeat,collapse,shortcoming,breakdown	Lack of success.
flexibility	adaptability,versatility,openness,pliancy	The quality of bending without breaking.
focus	concentration,attention,emphasis,priority	The center of interest or attention.
foundation	base,basis,groundwork,support	The basis on which something stands.
framework	structure,system,plan,outline	A basic structure underlying a system.

# G nouns
goal	aim,objective,target,purpose	The object of a person's ambition or effort.

# H nouns
habit	custom,practice,routine,tendency	A settled tendency or practice.
harmony	agreement,accord,unity,peace	A pleasing arrangement of parts.

# I nouns
identity	character,self,individuality,distinctiveness	Who or what a person or thing is.
impact	effect,influence,consequence,result	A marked effect or influence.
improvement	advance,progress,enhancement,refinement	The act of making something better.
initiative	enterprise,drive,ambition,effort	The ability to assess and take action.
innovation	invention,novelty,change,creativity	A new method or product.
insight	understanding,perception,awareness,wisdom	A deep understanding.
integrity	honesty,honor,morality,principle	The quality of being honest and moral.
interaction	communication,engagement,connection,exchange	Mutual or reciprocal action.
interpretation	understanding,reading,analysis,explanation	The action of explaining the meaning of something.

# J nouns
judgment	assessment,opinion,decision,evaluation	The ability to make considered decisions.

# K nouns
knowledge	understanding,expertise,learning,wisdom	Facts or skills acquired through experience.

# L nouns
leadership	command,guidance,direction,authority	The action of leading a group.
learning	education,study,knowledge,training	The acquisition of knowledge or skills.
limitation	restriction,constraint,boundary,cap	A restriction placed on someone or something.

# M nouns
mastery	expertise,skill,command,proficiency	Comprehensive knowledge or skill.
meaning	significance,sense,purpose,importance	What is meant by a word or action.
mechanism	system,process,means,method	A system of parts working together.
method	way,approach,technique,procedure	A particular procedure for accomplishing something.
mindset	attitude,outlook,perspective,mentality	An established set of attitudes held by someone.
momentum	impetus,drive,force,energy	The quantity of motion of a moving body.
motivation	drive,incentive,reason,inspiration	The desire or willingness to do something.

# N nouns
narrative	story,account,tale,description	A spoken or written account of events.
network	system,web,grid,connection	A group of interconnected people or things.

# O nouns
obstacle	barrier,hindrance,impediment,challenge	A thing that blocks progress.
opportunity	chance,opening,prospect,occasion	A set of circumstances making something possible.
outcome	result,consequence,effect,product	The way something turns out.

# P nouns
passion	enthusiasm,zeal,love,devotion	Strong and barely controllable emotion.
patience	tolerance,forbearance,endurance,calmness	The ability to wait without becoming annoyed.
pattern	design,arrangement,model,template	A repeated arrangement.
perception	awareness,understanding,view,insight	The ability to see or understand.
perseverance	persistence,determination,tenacity,endurance	Continued effort despite difficulty.
potential	possibility,capability,ability,promise	Latent qualities not yet developed.
principle	rule,value,standard,belief	A fundamental truth or standard.
process	procedure,method,system,operation	A series of actions producing a result.
progress	development,advancement,improvement,growth	Forward movement toward a goal.

# Q nouns
quality	excellence,standard,caliber,worth	The standard of something as measured against similar things.

# R nouns
reality	truth,fact,actuality,existence	The world as it actually exists.
reason	cause,rationale,logic,explanation	A cause or explanation for an action.
reflection	thought,contemplation,consideration,image	Serious thought or consideration.
relationship	connection,bond,association,link	The way two or more people are connected.
resilience	toughness,adaptability,recovery,durability	The capacity to recover quickly from difficulties.
responsibility	duty,obligation,accountability,burden	The state of having a duty to deal with something.
result	outcome,effect,consequence,product	A thing that is caused or produced by something.

# S nouns
skill	ability,talent,expertise,proficiency	The ability to do something well.
solution	answer,resolution,fix,remedy	A means of solving a problem.
strategy	plan,approach,method,tactics	A plan of action designed to achieve a goal.
strength	power,force,robustness,vigor	The quality of being strong.
structure	framework,organization,arrangement,system	The way parts are organized.
success	achievement,triumph,accomplishment,victory	The accomplishment of an aim.
support	assistance,help,backing,aid	Something that holds something else in place.
system	method,structure,organization,network	A set of connected things forming a whole.

# T nouns
talent	gift,ability,skill,aptitude	A natural aptitude or skill.
tension	stress,strain,anxiety,conflict	Mental or emotional strain.
theory	hypothesis,idea,concept,framework	A set of principles explaining a phenomenon.
transformation	change,conversion,metamorphosis,shift	A thorough or dramatic change.

# U nouns
understanding	comprehension,insight,grasp,knowledge	The ability to understand something.

# V nouns
value	worth,importance,benefit,merit	The importance or usefulness of something.
vision	sight,dream,foresight,imagination	The ability to think about the future.

# W nouns
wisdom	knowledge,insight,judgment,experience	The quality of having experience and good judgment.

# --- Additional adjectives ---

abrupt	sudden,sharp,unexpected,curt	Sudden and unexpected; rudely brief.
abstract	theoretical,conceptual,notional	Existing in thought rather than concretely.
accessible	available,reachable,attainable,approachable	Able to be reached or obtained.
accomplished	skilled,talented,proficient,expert	Highly trained or skilled.
adamant	firm,resolute,unyielding,insistent	Refusing to be persuaded; resolute.
affectionate	loving,warm,tender,fond	Readily feeling or showing fondness.
aggressive	hostile,forceful,assertive,combative	Ready or likely to attack; forceful.
alert	watchful,attentive,vigilant,awake	Quick to notice and act.
aloof	distant,detached,reserved,cold	Not friendly; not showing interest.
ambitious	driven,aspiring,determined,eager	Having a strong desire to succeed.
ample	plentiful,abundant,generous,spacious	Enough or more than enough.
analytical	logical,systematic,methodical,critical	Relating to analysis; good at logical thinking.
apparent	obvious,clear,evident,visible	Clearly visible or understood.
appropriate	suitable,fitting,proper,correct	Suitable or proper in the circumstances.
ardent	passionate,fervent,zealous,enthusiastic	Enthusiastic or passionate.
assertive	confident,direct,self-assured,decisive	Confident and direct in claiming one's rights.
astute	shrewd,clever,perceptive,intelligent	Having good judgment or insight.
attentive	alert,mindful,careful,observant	Paying close attention.
austere	severe,plain,strict,stern	Severe or strict in manner; without luxury.

# Ba-Bi adjectives
beneficial	helpful,useful,favorable,advantageous	Having a positive effect.
benevolent	kind,charitable,generous,good-willed	Well-meaning and kindly.
blatant	obvious,flagrant,glaring,overt	Done openly without shame.
brief	short,concise,quick,succinct	Of short duration; concise.
broken	damaged,fractured,shattered,impaired	Having been fractured; not functioning.
brutal	savage,violent,cruel,harsh	Savagely violent; mercilessly harsh.

# Ca-Cy adjectives
cautious	careful,wary,guarded,prudent	Careful to avoid danger.
cheerful	happy,bright,merry,buoyant	Noticeably happy and optimistic.
coarse	rough,crude,harsh,unrefined	Rough or loose in texture; crude.
coherent	logical,consistent,clear,rational	Logical and well-organized.
compelling	fascinating,gripping,interesting,convincing	Evoking interest, attention, or admiration.
comprehensive	complete,thorough,exhaustive,full	Including all elements; complete.
concise	brief,succinct,pithy,compact	Giving much information in few words.
concrete	real,actual,tangible,solid	Existing in material form; specific.
conservative	traditional,conventional,cautious,moderate	Averse to change; holding traditional values.
constructive	helpful,positive,productive,useful	Serving a useful purpose.
contemplative	thoughtful,reflective,meditative,pensive	Expressing or involving calm extended thought.
contentious	controversial,disputed,debatable,argumentative	Causing disagreement or argument.
convincing	persuasive,compelling,believable,credible	Able to persuade.
cooperative	helpful,willing,accommodating,collaborative	Willing to work together.
courageous	brave,bold,valiant,fearless	Not deterred by danger.
critical	important,essential,vital,decisive	Expressing adverse judgment; crucial.
cultural	social,traditional,artistic,ethnic	Relating to culture or civilization.
cunning	crafty,clever,shrewd,artful	Having skill in achieving goals by deceit.

# Da-Dy adjectives
decisive	determined,resolute,firm,definitive	Settling an issue; showing firmness.
dedicated	committed,devoted,loyal,steadfast	Devoted to a task or purpose.
defensive	protective,guarded,resistant,cautious	Used or intended to defend.
deliberate	intentional,planned,calculated,purposeful	Done consciously and intentionally.
demanding	challenging,exacting,rigorous,tough	Requiring effort or skill.
dependable	reliable,trustworthy,steady,responsible	Trustworthy and reliable.
detailed	thorough,comprehensive,precise,elaborate	Having many details.
determined	resolute,steadfast,persistent,tenacious	Firm in purpose.
dignified	stately,noble,respectable,honorable	Having dignity; worthy of respect.
diligent	hard-working,thorough,assiduous,industrious	Hardworking and careful.
distinctive	unique,characteristic,notable,special	Characteristic of a person or thing.

# E adjectives
earnest	serious,sincere,heartfelt,genuine	Intensely serious.
efficient	productive,effective,organized,capable	Achieving maximum output with minimum effort.
elegant	graceful,refined,stylish,sophisticated	Pleasingly graceful.
elusive	evasive,hard to catch,slippery,fleeting	Difficult to find or achieve.
empathetic	understanding,compassionate,sensitive,sympathetic	Showing empathy.
energetic	lively,vigorous,dynamic,active	Showing great energy.
engaging	interesting,captivating,charming,appealing	Attractive or interesting.
enlightened	informed,educated,aware,progressive	Having or showing awareness.
equal	same,equivalent,identical,balanced	Being the same in quantity or degree.
essential	necessary,vital,crucial,fundamental	Absolutely necessary.
ethical	moral,principled,righteous,honorable	Morally correct.
evident	obvious,apparent,clear,plain	Clearly visible; obvious.
exact	precise,accurate,specific,correct	Not approximated.
exceptional	outstanding,remarkable,extraordinary,excellent	Unusually good.

# F adjectives
fair	just,impartial,unbiased,equitable	Treating people equally.
familiar	well-known,common,recognizable,acquainted	Well known; common.
fascinating	interesting,captivating,enthralling,absorbing	Extremely interesting.
firm	solid,resolute,hard,steady	Not yielding to pressure; resolute.
focused	concentrated,attentive,determined,purposeful	Directing attention at a specific point.
forthright	direct,frank,honest,candid	Direct and outspoken.
frugal	economical,thrifty,careful,sparing	Sparing or economical in use of resources.
full	complete,filled,packed,whole	Containing all possible; complete.

# G adjectives
generous	giving,liberal,bountiful,unselfish	Showing readiness to give more than necessary.
genuine	authentic,real,sincere,true	Truly what something is said to be.
glorious	magnificent,splendid,superb,grand	Having a striking beauty or splendor.
graceful	elegant,fluid,poised,agile	Having elegance of movement.

# H adjectives
harmonious	agreeable,compatible,peaceful,unified	Forming a pleasing or consistent whole.
helpful	useful,supportive,cooperative,obliging	Giving or ready to give help.
heroic	brave,courageous,valiant,bold	Having qualities of a hero.

# I adjectives
ideal	perfect,best,optimal,model	Satisfying one's idea of what is perfect.
impartial	unbiased,neutral,objective,fair	Treating all parties equally.
impressive	remarkable,striking,notable,admirable	Evoking admiration through size or excellence.
independent	self-sufficient,autonomous,free,self-reliant	Free from outside control.
innovative	creative,original,inventive,novel	Featuring new methods or ideas.
insightful	perceptive,wise,astute,penetrating	Having insight; showing deep understanding.
intellectual	learned,academic,scholarly,thoughtful	Of or relating to the intellect.
intentional	deliberate,purposeful,planned,conscious	Done on purpose.
intricate	complex,detailed,elaborate,involved	Very complicated or detailed.
inventive	creative,original,imaginative,ingenious	Having the ability to create new things.

# J adjectives
just	fair,equitable,moral,righteous	Based on justice; morally right.

# K adjectives
knowledgeable	informed,educated,learned,expert	Well-informed; intelligent.

# L adjectives
lively	energetic,animated,vibrant,spirited	Full of life and energy.
lucid	clear,coherent,intelligible,transparent	Expressed clearly; easy to understand.

# M adjectives
meaningful	significant,purposeful,important,deep	Having meaning or significance.
meticulous	careful,precise,thorough,detailed	Giving attention to detail.
methodical	systematic,organized,orderly,careful	Done in an orderly way.
modest	humble,unassuming,simple,reserved	Unpretentious; not boastful.

# N adjectives
notable	remarkable,distinguished,noteworthy,significant	Worthy of attention.
nuanced	subtle,refined,delicate,complex	Characterized by subtle distinctions.

# O adjectives
observant	attentive,perceptive,alert,watchful	Quick to notice things.
optimal	best,ideal,perfect,most favorable	Best or most favorable.
orderly	neat,organized,methodical,systematic	Neatly arranged; well-organized.

# P adjectives
particular	specific,special,individual,distinct	Used to single out a person or thing.
passionate	fervent,enthusiastic,ardent,intense	Having strong feelings.
peaceful	calm,tranquil,serene,quiet	Free from disturbance; calm.
perceptive	insightful,astute,shrewd,observant	Having a good understanding of things.
persuasive	convincing,compelling,influential,effective	Good at persuading.
precise	exact,accurate,correct,specific	Marked by exactness.
principled	ethical,moral,honorable,upright	Acting in accordance with morality.
progressive	forward-thinking,advanced,liberal,modern	Favoring change and new ideas.
prominent	important,distinguished,notable,eminent	Important; famous.
punctual	timely,on time,prompt,reliable	Happening at the agreed time.

# Q adjectives
qualified	capable,competent,certified,eligible	Officially recognized as meeting requirements.

# R adjectives
rational	logical,reasonable,sensible,balanced	Based on reason.
reasonable	fair,sensible,rational,moderate	Having sound judgment.
reliable	dependable,trustworthy,consistent,steady	Consistently good and dependable.
remarkable	extraordinary,notable,impressive,outstanding	Worthy of attention.
resilient	tough,adaptable,hardy,flexible	Able to recover from difficulty.
resourceful	clever,inventive,adaptable,capable	Able to find solutions to problems.
respectable	admirable,worthy,decent,honorable	Regarded as good.
responsible	accountable,reliable,dependable,trustworthy	Having an obligation to do something.
robust	strong,sturdy,vigorous,durable	Strong and healthy.

# S adjectives
sensible	practical,reasonable,sound,logical	Done with wisdom.
skilled	expert,proficient,capable,accomplished	Having skills.
sincere	genuine,honest,heartfelt,authentic	Not pretending; honest.
sophisticated	refined,cultured,complex,advanced	Having a refined understanding.
stable	steady,secure,firm,constant	Not likely to change.
steadfast	resolute,firm,determined,unwavering	Resolutely firm.
steadfast	loyal,constant,devoted,dependable	Firm and unwavering.
stimulating	interesting,exciting,challenging,thought-provoking	Making one feel enthusiastic.
strategic	planned,calculated,deliberate,tactical	Forming part of a strategy.
structured	organized,systematic,orderly,planned	Arranged in a definite pattern.
subtle	delicate,faint,slight,understated	So delicate as to be difficult to analyze.

# T adjectives
talented	gifted,skilled,capable,accomplished	Having a natural aptitude.
thorough	complete,comprehensive,exhaustive,detailed	Carried out with great care.
tolerant	open-minded,accepting,fair,patient	Showing willingness to accept differences.
transparent	clear,honest,open,frank	Easy to see through; without pretense.
trustworthy	reliable,dependable,honest,loyal	Able to be relied on.

# U adjectives
unbiased	impartial,fair,objective,neutral	Showing no prejudice.
unique	distinctive,one-of-a-kind,original,singular	Being the only one of its kind.

# V adjectives
valid	sound,justifiable,legitimate,reasonable	Having a sound basis in fact.
valuable	worthwhile,precious,important,useful	Worth a lot; of great use.
versatile	adaptable,flexible,all-around,multifaceted	Able to adapt to many uses.
vigilant	alert,watchful,attentive,wary	Keeping careful watch.

# W adjectives
well-rounded	balanced,versatile,complete,comprehensive	Having a wide range of abilities.

# Z adjectives
zealous	passionate,fervent,ardent,enthusiastic	Having great zeal.

# --- Additional verbs not yet listed ---

accommodate	adapt,adjust,fit,house	To fit in with the needs of; to provide lodging.
advocate	support,champion,promote,recommend	To publicly support a cause.
alleviate	ease,relieve,lessen,mitigate	To make pain or difficulty less severe.
annex	add,attach,acquire,incorporate	To attach or add to something larger.
appoint	designate,assign,name,select	To assign a job or role to someone.
archive	store,file,preserve,record	To place in an archive for safekeeping.
articulate	express,state,say,convey	To express an idea clearly.
aspire	aim,strive,hope,seek	To direct one's hopes toward a goal.
attract	draw,pull,entice,lure	To cause to come toward.
authenticate	verify,confirm,validate,prove	To prove or confirm as genuine.
authorize	permit,allow,sanction,approve	To give official permission.

boost	raise,increase,lift,enhance	To increase or improve.
breach	break,violate,rupture,gap	To break or fail to observe a rule or agreement.

challenge	dispute,question,contest,dare	To dispute or call into question.
chart	map,plan,plot,record	To make a map of; to record.
clarify	clear up,explain,illuminate,simplify	To make less confused.
cluster	group,gather,bunch,collect	To form a tight group.
collaborate	work together,cooperate,team,partner	To work jointly on something.
compile	gather,collect,assemble,put together	To assemble information into a list.
comprehend	understand,grasp,fathom,get	To understand fully.
conceive	imagine,think up,devise,create	To form or devise in the mind.
condense	compress,shorten,summarize,reduce	To make more concise.
confer	discuss,consult,bestow,give	To discuss something with others; to grant.
configure	set up,arrange,adjust,customize	To set up for a particular purpose.
consult	ask,seek advice,discuss,confer	To seek information or advice from.
contain	hold,include,enclose,comprise	To have or hold within.
convey	communicate,express,transmit,deliver	To communicate a message.
convince	persuade,win over,sway,satisfy	To cause to believe or do something.
correlate	relate,connect,link,associate	To have a mutual relationship.
cultivate	grow,develop,foster,nurture	To develop.

declare	announce,state,proclaim,assert	To make known formally.
decompose	break down,decay,disintegrate,rot	To break down into components.
deduce	conclude,infer,derive,gather	To reach a conclusion by reasoning.
delegate	assign,entrust,hand over,transfer	To entrust a task to another person.
depict	portray,show,represent,describe	To show or represent in a picture or words.
derive	obtain,get,extract,deduce	To obtain from a source.
detect	find,discover,identify,notice	To discover the existence of.
determine	decide,resolve,establish,ascertain	To cause or decide.
devise	design,plan,create,invent	To plan or invent a procedure.
diagnose	identify,determine,detect,assess	To identify the nature of a problem.
differentiate	distinguish,separate,contrast,tell apart	To recognize what makes things different.
direct	guide,steer,lead,manage	To manage and control; to give instructions.
distribute	spread,allocate,share,deliver	To supply to multiple recipients.

embed	insert,place,incorporate,include	To fix firmly in a surrounding mass.
emphasize	stress,highlight,underline,focus on	To give special importance to.
emulate	imitate,copy,follow,mirror	To try to match or surpass.
encourage	support,motivate,inspire,promote	To give support or confidence.
ensure	make sure,guarantee,secure,confirm	To make certain something will happen.
establish	found,create,set up,build	To set up on a firm basis.
exhibit	display,show,demonstrate,present	To publicly display.
explain	clarify,describe,illustrate,elucidate	To make plain or clear.
express	convey,show,communicate,voice	To put into words or gestures.

foster	encourage,promote,nurture,support	To encourage the development of.
frame	structure,present,articulate,position	To put together or define.
fulfill	satisfy,carry out,meet,complete	To bring to completion.

generate	produce,create,make,yield	To cause something to arise.
govern	rule,control,manage,direct	To conduct the policy and affairs of.
ground	base,root,anchor,establish	To give a firm basis to.

harness	use,control,exploit,channel	To control and make use of.
highlight	emphasize,stress,draw attention to,feature	To pick out and emphasize.

identify	recognize,distinguish,name,spot	To establish or indicate the identity of.
implement	carry out,execute,put into practice,apply	To put a plan into action.
incorporate	include,integrate,add,embed	To take in or contain as part of a whole.
indicate	show,point to,suggest,signal	To point out or show.
inspire	motivate,energize,stimulate,encourage	To fill with the urge to do something.

justify	defend,explain,rationalize,support	To show to be right or reasonable.

maintain	keep,preserve,uphold,sustain	To cause to continue; to keep in repair.
mitigate	lessen,reduce,alleviate,ease	To make less severe or serious.

navigate	direct,steer,guide,chart	To find the way through.
notify	inform,tell,alert,advise	To inform someone of something.

overcome	surmount,conquer,defeat,prevail	To succeed in dealing with difficulty.

persist	continue,carry on,keep going,endure	To continue steadfastly.
predict	forecast,foresee,anticipate,project	To say what will happen in the future.
preserve	protect,maintain,keep,conserve	To maintain in its original state.
process	handle,deal with,treat,manage	To perform a series of actions on.
promote	advance,support,encourage,back	To raise to a higher position.
propose	suggest,put forward,recommend,offer	To put forward for consideration.
protect	shield,guard,defend,secure	To keep safe.

recognize	identify,acknowledge,know,spot	To identify as previously seen.
refine	improve,perfect,polish,enhance	To remove imperfections; to improve.
reinstate	restore,return,bring back,reestablish	To put back in a previous position.
require	need,demand,necessitate,call for	To need for a purpose.

simplify	make easier,reduce,clarify,streamline	To make less complex.
solve	resolve,answer,work out,fix	To find a solution.
specify	state,define,describe,detail	To identify clearly and definitely.
strengthen	reinforce,fortify,bolster,enhance	To make stronger.
structure	organize,arrange,plan,order	To give structure to.

trace	track,follow,find,outline	To find the origin of; to follow a path.
translate	convert,interpret,render,change	To express in another language or form.

unite	join,combine,link,merge	To come together for a purpose.

visualize	imagine,picture,envision,conceive	To form a mental image of.


# --- Extended batch 2: more verbs, adjectives, nouns, adverbs ---

# More verbs
accelerate	speed up,hasten,quicken,increase	To increase speed or rate of development.
acknowledge	recognize,admit,accept,confess	To accept or admit the existence of something.
activate	start,trigger,initiate,switch on	To make active or operative.
administer	manage,run,oversee,supervise	To manage and be responsible for.
affirm	confirm,assert,uphold,declare	To state positively; to uphold a decision.
aggravate	worsen,intensify,inflame,exacerbate	To make worse or more serious.
aggregate	combine,total,collect,accumulate	To collect or group together.
agitate	disturb,stir,upset,trouble	To make anxious or nervous; to stir vigorously.
aid	help,assist,support,abet	To provide assistance to.
alert	warn,notify,signal,inform	To warn of danger; to make aware.
amaze	astonish,astound,stun,dumbfound	To fill with wonder or surprise.
amiable	friendly,pleasant,agreeable,likable	Having a friendly and pleasant manner.
animate	enliven,invigorate,stimulate,activate	To bring to life; to make lively.
annotate	comment,note,mark,explain	To add notes to a text.
apply	use,employ,put to use,administer	To put something into practical use.
arbitrate	mediate,judge,settle,decide	To settle a dispute between parties.
articulate	express,voice,state,communicate	To state clearly.
aspire	yearn,aim,strive,long	To have ambition.
attend	go to,be present,participate,watch	To be present at an event.
balance	equalize,offset,even out,stabilize	To bring to a state of equilibrium.
block	obstruct,hinder,stop,impede	To make impossible to pass.
calm	soothe,pacify,settle,quiet	To make tranquil.
cancel	call off,annul,revoke,abort	To decide not to proceed with something.
categorize	classify,sort,group,organize	To place in a category.
challenge	dispute,contest,question,dare	To dispute the truth of.
channel	direct,guide,focus,funnel	To direct toward a particular end.
circulate	distribute,spread,pass around,flow	To move or cause to move in a circle.
cite	quote,reference,mention,name	To quote as evidence.
classify	categorize,sort,group,arrange	To arrange in classes.
coexist	live together,cohabitate,share,tolerate	To exist at the same time or in the same place.
collaborate	cooperate,team,join forces,work together	To work with others.
command	order,direct,instruct,lead	To give authoritative instructions.
commence	begin,start,initiate,open	To start or begin.
compare	contrast,evaluate,assess,examine	To estimate similarities and differences.
compel	force,oblige,require,drive	To force or oblige to do something.
compete	contend,vie,rival,contest	To strive against others.
complain	grumble,protest,moan,object	To express dissatisfaction.
complete	finish,accomplish,conclude,finalize	To bring to an end.
condense	compress,shorten,reduce,abridge	To make shorter or denser.
conduct	carry out,perform,direct,manage	To organize and carry out.
conquer	overcome,defeat,vanquish,subdue	To overcome by force.
consult	seek advice,ask,discuss,refer to	To ask advice from.
contact	reach,communicate with,get in touch,connect	To communicate with.
contemplate	think about,ponder,consider,reflect	To think carefully about.
contrast	compare,differ,distinguish,juxtapose	To show differences.
control	manage,direct,regulate,govern	To determine behavior or supervise.
coordinate	organize,arrange,synchronize,manage	To organize different elements together.
correspond	match,agree,relate,communicate	To be in agreement or similarity.
counsel	advise,guide,recommend,suggest	To give professional advice.
counter	oppose,respond,reply,rebut	To respond to; to contradict.
critique	analyze,evaluate,assess,review	To evaluate in an analytical way.
customize	adapt,tailor,modify,personalize	To make suitable for individual requirements.
debug	fix,troubleshoot,correct,repair	To find and remove errors from.
decide	resolve,determine,conclude,choose	To reach a conclusion after consideration.
dedicate	devote,commit,assign,consecrate	To devote time or effort to.
delay	postpone,defer,put off,suspend	To make late; to postpone.
deliberate	consider,weigh,ponder,discuss	To engage in long careful consideration.
deliver	bring,hand over,supply,present	To bring to a destination.
demonstrate	show,prove,exhibit,illustrate	To show evidence of.
deploy	use,employ,position,station	To bring into use.
derive	obtain,get,deduce,infer	To obtain from a source.
design	plan,create,devise,invent	To plan and make.
determine	decide,establish,ascertain,figure out	To cause or control.
develop	grow,build,evolve,improve	To grow more elaborate.
differentiate	distinguish,separate,tell apart,discriminate	To recognize differences.
direct	guide,lead,manage,point	To control the operations of.
discuss	talk about,debate,consider,review	To talk at length about.
display	show,exhibit,present,demonstrate	To show prominently.
dissolve	melt,break up,liquefy,disperse	To become incorporated into a liquid.
distribute	share,give out,allocate,divide	To give shares of something out.
document	record,note,register,log	To record in written form.
draft	write,compose,outline,draw up	To prepare a preliminary version.
draw	attract,pull,sketch,depict	To produce a picture; to attract.
earn	deserve,gain,receive,merit	To obtain in return for work.
educate	teach,instruct,train,enlighten	To give intellectual or moral instruction.
elaborate	expand,develop,explain in detail,add	To give more detail about.
encode	convert,translate,encrypt,represent	To convert into a coded form.
engage	involve,occupy,attract,participate	To participate in; to attract attention.
enhance	improve,increase,elevate,boost	To intensify or add to.
examine	inspect,study,investigate,review	To inspect or scrutinize carefully.
exceed	surpass,outstrip,go beyond,top	To be greater than; to go beyond.
execute	carry out,perform,implement,do	To carry out or put into effect.
expand	grow,extend,enlarge,increase	To become or make larger.
explain	clarify,describe,expound,elaborate	To make plain or understandable.
export	send out,ship,transfer,extract	To send goods to another country or system.
facilitate	make easy,help,assist,enable	To make an action or process easier.
filter	sift,strain,select,screen	To pass through a filter; to select.
focus	concentrate,direct,center,aim	To direct attention on.
follow	pursue,track,come after,obey	To come after; to comply with.
formulate	develop,devise,create,frame	To create or prepare methodically.
function	work,operate,serve,act	To work or operate in a specific way.
gather	collect,assemble,accumulate,amass	To collect or bring together.
generate	produce,create,yield,make	To produce or create.
govern	rule,control,manage,regulate	To control policy and affairs.
grant	give,allow,award,provide	To agree to give or allow.
guide	lead,direct,steer,advise	To show the way; to advise.
handle	manage,deal with,control,treat	To deal with.
host	entertain,manage,organize,welcome	To act as host of.
identify	recognize,determine,name,spot	To establish who or what something is.
illustrate	demonstrate,show,depict,exemplify	To explain by use of examples.
implement	execute,apply,carry out,perform	To put into effect.
improve	better,enhance,upgrade,advance	To make or become better.
include	contain,involve,incorporate,comprise	To contain as part of a whole.
indicate	show,point to,signal,suggest	To be a sign or symptom of.
innovate	create,invent,devise,pioneer	To make changes; to introduce new ideas.
inspect	examine,check,review,assess	To look at closely.
integrate	combine,merge,incorporate,blend	To combine into a whole.
interpret	explain,translate,understand,analyze	To explain the meaning of.
interview	question,query,examine,talk to	To ask formal questions of.
introduce	present,bring in,add,start	To bring into use for the first time.
investigate	probe,study,examine,research	To carry out research.
judge	assess,evaluate,decide,determine	To form an opinion about.
justify	explain,defend,rationalize,vindicate	To show to be right.
launch	start,begin,send,release	To start a new project.
locate	find,spot,identify,detect	To discover the exact place of.
log	record,note,document,register	To make a record of.
maintain	keep,uphold,preserve,continue	To cause to continue; to keep in repair.
manage	control,run,handle,direct	To be in charge of.
map	chart,plan,outline,show	To make a map of; to represent.
measure	gauge,assess,calculate,determine	To ascertain the size or extent of.
merge	combine,join,fuse,integrate	To combine into a whole.
model	represent,demonstrate,show,exemplify	To represent as a model.
monitor	watch,observe,track,check	To observe and check the progress of.
motivate	encourage,inspire,drive,incentivize	To provide a reason for doing.
navigate	steer,guide,find the way,direct	To plan and direct a route.
negotiate	discuss,arrange,bargain,mediate	To reach an agreement through discussion.
notify	inform,tell,advise,alert	To inform someone of something.
observe	watch,notice,see,study	To notice or perceive.
obtain	get,acquire,secure,gain	To come into possession of.
organize	arrange,structure,order,plan	To arrange in an orderly way.
overcome	conquer,surmount,prevail,defeat	To succeed in dealing with.
perform	do,execute,carry out,accomplish	To carry out an action.
plan	organize,prepare,devise,arrange	To make a plan for.
present	show,display,introduce,offer	To show or offer for consideration.
prioritize	rank,order,focus,emphasize	To rank in order of importance.
process	handle,deal with,treat,manage	To perform operations on.
produce	create,make,generate,yield	To make or manufacture.
promote	advance,support,further,back	To raise to a higher position; to support.
provide	supply,give,offer,deliver	To make available.
qualify	certify,meet requirements,be eligible	To be entitled to.
question	ask,query,challenge,doubt	To ask questions; to doubt.
receive	get,obtain,accept,take	To be given something.
recommend	suggest,advise,advocate,endorse	To put forward as suitable.
refine	improve,perfect,polish,hone	To remove impurities; to improve.
reinforce	strengthen,support,bolster,fortify	To strengthen or support.
relate	connect,associate,narrate,tell	To make a connection; to narrate.
report	inform,describe,announce,state	To give a spoken or written account.
represent	stand for,portray,depict,act for	To act or speak on behalf of.
research	investigate,study,explore,examine	To investigate systematically.
resolve	settle,decide,solve,conclude	To settle a dispute; to find a solution.
respond	reply,answer,react,retort	To say something in reply.
restore	repair,renew,revive,rehabilitate	To bring back to original condition.
review	assess,examine,evaluate,reconsider	To examine or assess formally.
revise	amend,update,edit,change	To reconsider and alter.
satisfy	fulfill,meet,content,please	To meet the expectations of.
select	choose,pick,opt for,prefer	To carefully choose.
share	distribute,divide,give,exchange	To have or give a portion.
signal	indicate,show,warn,communicate	To transmit a signal.
simplify	streamline,clarify,make easier,reduce	To make simpler.
simulate	model,represent,imitate,replicate	To imitate the appearance or character of.
sort	arrange,organize,classify,order	To arrange in a particular order.
specify	define,state,detail,describe	To state clearly and definitely.
stabilize	steady,secure,fix,balance	To make or become stable.
standardize	normalize,regularize,unify,regulate	To cause to conform to a standard.
study	examine,research,investigate,learn	To give attention to learning.
support	back,assist,uphold,maintain	To give assistance to.
synthesize	combine,integrate,merge,blend	To combine elements to form something new.
tackle	deal with,address,handle,confront	To take on a difficult task.
target	aim at,focus on,direct at,select	To direct at a target.
teach	instruct,educate,train,inform	To show someone how to do something.
test	try,check,examine,assess	To assess the qualities of.
track	follow,monitor,trace,record	To follow the course of.
transfer	move,shift,convey,carry	To move from one place to another.
update	revise,upgrade,refresh,edit	To bring up to date.
validate	confirm,verify,substantiate,prove	To demonstrate the truth of.
verify	check,confirm,prove,substantiate	To make sure something is true.
visualize	imagine,picture,envision,see	To form a mental image of.
yield	produce,give,generate,surrender	To produce; to give way.

# More adjectives
accurate	correct,precise,exact,faithful	Free from errors.
affordable	cheap,inexpensive,reasonable,accessible	Not expensive.
aggressive	combative,hostile,assertive,forceful	Ready to attack; forceful.
alert	watchful,attentive,aware,sharp	Vigilant.
altruistic	selfless,generous,unselfish,charitable	Showing selfless concern for others.
amicable	friendly,cordial,harmonious,agreeable	Having a friendly nature.
analytical	logical,systematic,methodical	Good at analyzing.
appealing	attractive,charming,pleasing,desirable	Attractive or interesting.
apt	fitting,appropriate,suitable,relevant	Appropriate; having a tendency.
articulate	fluent,eloquent,expressive,clear	Able to express ideas clearly.
aspirational	ambitious,inspiring,goal-oriented	Relating to aspirations.
assertive	self-confident,direct,bold,forceful	Confident in stating one's views.
astute	clever,perceptive,shrewd,intelligent	Able to accurately assess situations.
aware	conscious,informed,alert,cognizant	Knowing or perceiving.
baffling	confusing,puzzling,mystifying,bewildering	Causing confusion.
balanced	equal,proportionate,stable,fair	Having equal amounts on each side.
candid	honest,frank,open,truthful	Truthful and straightforward.
capable	able,competent,proficient,skilled	Having the ability to do something.
careful	cautious,meticulous,thorough,attentive	Attentive to avoiding errors.
cheerful	happy,jolly,joyful,merry	Noticeably happy and optimistic.
coherent	logical,consistent,clear,unified	Logical and orderly.
committed	dedicated,devoted,loyal,steadfast	Devoted to a cause.
comparable	similar,equivalent,like,matching	Able to be compared.
compassionate	sympathetic,kind,caring,empathetic	Feeling or showing compassion.
compelling	convincing,absorbing,gripping,powerful	Evoking strong interest.
comprehensive	thorough,complete,inclusive,exhaustive	Including everything.
concerned	worried,troubled,anxious,caring	Worried about something; caring.
concrete	tangible,real,specific,solid	Definite and clear.
confident	assured,self-assured,certain,bold	Feeling or showing confidence.
considerate	thoughtful,attentive,kind,caring	Careful about the feelings of others.
consistent	reliable,regular,steady,constant	The same over time.
constructive	helpful,positive,productive,useful	Having a useful and positive effect.
content	satisfied,happy,pleased,at ease	In a state of satisfaction.
controversial	disputed,debatable,contentious,contested	Causing disagreement.
cooperative	helpful,collaborative,accommodating	Willing to work with others.
courageous	brave,bold,valiant,fearless	Not deterred by danger.
crisp	clear,sharp,fresh,precise	Cool and fresh; clear and neat.
crucial	critical,vital,essential,key	Decisive or critical.
curious	inquisitive,questioning,eager,interested	Eager to know or learn.
decisive	determined,resolute,firm,definitive	Able to make decisions quickly.
dedicated	committed,devoted,loyal,faithful	Devoted to a task.
dependable	reliable,trustworthy,steady,constant	Able to be relied on.
detailed	thorough,comprehensive,precise,specific	Involving many details.
diplomatic	tactful,discreet,sensitive,judicious	Having skill in dealing with situations.
distinct	clear,separate,different,noticeable	Recognizably different.
diverse	varied,mixed,different,assorted	Showing variety.
dynamic	energetic,active,vibrant,vigorous	Positive in attitude; characterized by change.
eager	keen,enthusiastic,avid,ready	Wanting very much to do something.
earnest	sincere,serious,determined,heartfelt	Serious in intention.
effective	successful,efficient,productive,capable	Having the desired result.
efficient	productive,capable,effective,organized	Achieving with minimum waste.
eloquent	well-spoken,articulate,expressive,fluent	Fluent in speech or writing.
empathetic	compassionate,understanding,sensitive,caring	Showing empathy.
energetic	active,vigorous,lively,dynamic	Having great energy.
engaged	involved,interested,committed,active	Occupied; committed.
enthusiastic	eager,keen,passionate,excited	Showing enthusiasm.
equitable	fair,just,impartial,reasonable	Fair and reasonable.
ethical	moral,principled,righteous,honest	Morally correct.
exact	precise,accurate,specific,correct	Not approximated.
fair	just,impartial,unbiased,equitable	Treating people equally.
flexible	adaptable,adjustable,pliant,elastic	Able to bend; adaptable.
focused	concentrated,determined,goal-oriented	Directing attention at a point.
forthright	frank,direct,honest,candid	Direct and outspoken.
friendly	amicable,warm,sociable,pleasant	Showing kindness and goodwill.
frugal	thrifty,economical,sparing,careful	Sparing with resources.
genuine	authentic,real,sincere,true	Truly what it claims to be.
gracious	courteous,kind,civil,polite	Courteous and pleasant.
grounded	stable,balanced,sensible,practical	Well-balanced and sensible.
helpful	useful,supportive,cooperative,kind	Ready to help.
humble	modest,meek,unassuming,unpretentious	Having a low opinion of one's importance.
imaginative	creative,inventive,original,innovative	Having or showing creativity.
impartial	neutral,objective,unbiased,fair	Not biased; treating all equally.
impressive	remarkable,notable,striking,admirable	Evoking admiration.
inclusive	broad,comprehensive,all-embracing,welcoming	Not excluding anyone.
independent	self-sufficient,autonomous,free,unbiased	Not depending on others.
industrious	hardworking,diligent,productive,busy	Diligent and hardworking.
innovative	creative,original,inventive,groundbreaking	Introducing new ideas.
insightful	perceptive,astute,wise,observant	Showing deep understanding.
inspiring	motivating,encouraging,uplifting,stirring	Having an animating effect.
intellectual	learned,academic,thoughtful,scholarly	Of or relating to the intellect.
intuitive	instinctive,spontaneous,natural,immediate	Using intuition.
inventive	creative,original,resourceful,innovative	Having the ability to invent.
knowledgeable	informed,educated,expert,learned	Having much knowledge.
lively	animated,energetic,vivid,active	Full of life and energy.
logical	rational,reasoned,coherent,sound	Based on logic.
loyal	faithful,devoted,true,dedicated	Giving constant support.
mature	adult,grown,developed,sophisticated	Having reached full development.
methodical	systematic,ordered,organized,careful	Organized and systematic.
mindful	aware,conscious,attentive,careful	Conscious of the present.
modest	humble,unassuming,simple,restrained	Not boastful; moderate.
motivated	driven,inspired,energized,enthusiastic	Having motivation.
nuanced	subtle,refined,complex,delicate	Having subtle distinctions.
objective	unbiased,impartial,fair,neutral	Not influenced by personal feelings.
open-minded	receptive,tolerant,flexible,liberal	Willing to consider new ideas.
optimistic	positive,hopeful,confident,upbeat	Expecting good things.
organized	methodical,orderly,structured,systematic	Arranged in an orderly way.
outspoken	frank,direct,vocal,candid	Tending to speak frankly.
passionate	fervent,enthusiastic,ardent,intense	Having strong feelings.
patient	tolerant,calm,enduring,composed	Able to wait calmly.
perceptive	insightful,astute,observant,sharp	Showing good perception.
persistent	determined,tenacious,steadfast,stubborn	Continuing despite difficulty.
positive	optimistic,affirmative,constructive,favorable	Expressing certainty or agreement.
pragmatic	practical,sensible,realistic,down-to-earth	Dealing with things practically.
precise	exact,accurate,specific,definite	Marked by precision.
principled	ethical,moral,honorable,virtuous	Acting on moral principles.
proactive	anticipatory,forward-thinking,initiative-taking	Taking action before required.
productive	fruitful,efficient,effective,fertile	Achieving good results.
professional	skilled,expert,competent,qualified	Relating to a profession.
progressive	forward-thinking,liberal,advanced,modern	Favoring social reform.
prudent	wise,sensible,careful,judicious	Acting with care and thought.
purposeful	determined,deliberate,intentional,motivated	Having a clear purpose.
rational	logical,reasonable,sensible,sound	Based on reason.
realistic	practical,sensible,down-to-earth,pragmatic	Having realistic views.
reliable	dependable,trustworthy,steady,consistent	Consistently dependable.
remarkable	extraordinary,notable,impressive,exceptional	Worthy of attention.
resilient	tough,adaptable,hardy,robust	Recovering quickly from difficulty.
resourceful	capable,inventive,creative,clever	Finding solutions to problems.
responsible	accountable,reliable,trustworthy,dependable	Having responsibility.
rigorous	strict,thorough,demanding,exacting	Extremely thorough.
robust	strong,sturdy,healthy,vigorous	Strong and sturdy.
sensible	practical,reasonable,wise,sound	Having common sense.
sensitive	perceptive,responsive,tender,delicate	Quick to detect changes.
shrewd	astute,clever,crafty,perceptive	Having good judgment.
sincere	genuine,honest,heartfelt,real	Honest and genuine.
skilled	expert,proficient,capable,accomplished	Having skills.
sociable	friendly,outgoing,gregarious,convivial	Willing to talk with others.
sophisticated	refined,complex,advanced,cultured	Having refined understanding.
steadfast	loyal,resolute,firm,unwavering	Firmly loyal.
strategic	planned,deliberate,tactical,calculated	Part of a strategy.
structured	organized,orderly,systematic,planned	Arranged in a definite structure.
supportive	helpful,encouraging,caring,constructive	Providing support.
talented	gifted,able,skilled,accomplished	Having natural talent.
tenacious	persistent,stubborn,determined,relentless	Holding firm to a purpose.
thoughtful	considerate,reflective,attentive,caring	Showing careful thought.
thorough	complete,comprehensive,exhaustive,detailed	Carried out with great care.
tolerant	accepting,fair,patient,open-minded	Willing to tolerate differences.
transparent	open,honest,clear,candid	Open and honest.
trustworthy	reliable,honest,dependable,loyal	Worthy of trust.
unique	original,distinctive,special,singular	Unlike anything else.
upbeat	positive,optimistic,cheerful,buoyant	Optimistic and cheerful.
versatile	adaptable,flexible,all-around,skilled	Able to adapt to many uses.
vigilant	alert,watchful,attentive,careful	Keeping watch for danger.
visionary	innovative,forward-thinking,creative,pioneering	Thinking about the future.
witty	clever,humorous,amusing,quick	Showing quick intelligence.

# More nouns
accomplishment	achievement,feat,success,attainment	Something done successfully.
accountability	responsibility,answerability,reliability	The fact of being responsible.
accuracy	precision,correctness,exactness,faithfulness	The quality of being accurate.
adaptability	flexibility,versatility,adjustability	The ability to adapt.
advancement	progress,improvement,development,promotion	The process of promoting.
agenda	plan,schedule,program,list	A list of items to be discussed.
ambiguity	vagueness,uncertainty,obscurity,doubt	Uncertainty in meaning.
analogy	comparison,parallel,similarity,likeness	A comparison showing similarity.
anomaly	irregularity,deviation,exception,oddity	Something different from what is expected.
approach	method,way,technique,strategy	A way of dealing with something.
aptitude	talent,ability,skill,gift	A natural ability to learn.
archetype	model,prototype,standard,original	A typical example.
assertion	claim,statement,declaration,contention	A confident statement of fact.
assumption	presumption,premise,hypothesis,belief	Something accepted as true without proof.
atmosphere	air,environment,mood,climate	The surrounding conditions.
attribute	quality,characteristic,feature,trait	A quality or feature.
axiom	principle,truth,maxim,rule	A statement accepted as true.
backdrop	background,setting,context,scene	The setting against which events occur.
benchmark	standard,reference point,criterion,measure	A point of reference.
bias	prejudice,partiality,inclination,slant	Unfair preference for one thing.
breakthrough	discovery,advance,development,leap	A sudden important development.
catalog	list,inventory,record,index	A complete list.
category	class,group,type,kind	A class of things with shared characteristics.
challenge	difficulty,obstacle,test,problem	A task that tests ability.
clarity	clearness,precision,transparency,lucidity	The quality of being clear.
cohesion	unity,togetherness,solidarity,connection	The action of forming a whole.
commitment	dedication,devotion,pledge,obligation	Dedication to a cause.
competence	ability,skill,capability,proficiency	The ability to do something well.
component	part,element,piece,unit	A part or element of a larger whole.
concept	idea,notion,principle,theory	An abstract idea.
concern	worry,issue,problem,interest	A matter causing worry; a feeling of worry.
consensus	agreement,accord,unity,harmony	General agreement.
context	background,circumstances,setting,framework	The circumstances surrounding something.
criterion	standard,measure,rule,test	A principle by which to judge.
culture	tradition,society,customs,heritage	The ideas and customs of a group.
cycle	pattern,sequence,loop,rotation	A series of events regularly repeated.
data	information,facts,figures,evidence	Facts and statistics collected.
definition	meaning,explanation,description,interpretation	A statement of the exact meaning.
detail	particulars,specifics,element,feature	An individual part or element.
dilemma	problem,difficulty,quandary,predicament	A difficult situation or problem.
dimension	aspect,element,feature,scope	A measurable extent of some kind.
direction	course,path,guidance,instruction	The path along which something moves.
discovery	finding,revelation,breakthrough,uncovering	The action of finding something new.
distinction	difference,contrast,excellence,uniqueness	A difference between things.
domain	field,area,sphere,territory	A field of action or thought.
dynamic	force,energy,interaction,change	Forces or properties that stimulate change.
element	component,part,factor,constituent	A component or feature.
emphasis	stress,focus,importance,priority	Special importance given to something.
environment	surroundings,setting,context,conditions	The surroundings in which something operates.
equilibrium	balance,stability,steadiness,equality	A state of rest or balance.
essence	core,nature,substance,heart	The intrinsic nature of something.
evaluation	assessment,appraisal,review,analysis	The act of assessing.
evolution	development,progress,advancement,change	The gradual development of something.
example	instance,illustration,case,sample	A thing used to clarify.
exchange	trade,swap,substitution,interaction	The act of giving and receiving.
execution	performance,implementation,carrying out	The carrying out of a plan.
expectation	anticipation,hope,belief,assumption	A belief that something will happen.
expertise	skill,knowledge,mastery,proficiency	Expert skill or knowledge.
explanation	description,account,clarification,reason	A statement explaining something.
factor	element,aspect,component,consideration	Something contributing to a result.
feedback	response,reaction,comment,evaluation	Information about an action.
flexibility	adaptability,pliancy,versatility,openness	The ability to adapt.
focus	concentration,attention,emphasis,priority	The center of interest.
format	structure,arrangement,layout,form	The way in which something is arranged.
framework	structure,system,outline,plan	A basic structure.
function	purpose,role,use,operation	The purpose something is designed for.
guideline	rule,instruction,direction,principle	A general rule or piece of advice.
habit	custom,practice,routine,tendency	A regular practice.
impact	effect,influence,consequence,result	A marked effect.
improvement	advance,progress,enhancement,development	A change for the better.
incentive	motivation,reason,reward,stimulus	Something encouraging a person to act.
inference	conclusion,deduction,implication,reading	A conclusion drawn from evidence.
influence	effect,power,impact,control	Capacity to have an effect on others.
information	data,knowledge,facts,details	Facts provided or learned.
initiative	enterprise,drive,plan,scheme	The ability to take action independently.
insight	understanding,perception,wisdom,awareness	Accurate and deep understanding.
integrity	honesty,honor,character,virtue	Firmness of moral principles.
intention	aim,goal,purpose,plan	What one intends to do.
interest	curiosity,concern,stake,benefit	The state of wanting to know about something.
interpretation	understanding,explanation,reading,analysis	The act of explaining the meaning.
intuition	instinct,feeling,sense,perception	The ability to understand without reasoning.
investigation	inquiry,study,examination,research	The formal examination of something.
judgment	assessment,opinion,view,decision	The ability to judge wisely.
key	answer,solution,guide,essential factor	Something that provides access or understanding.
leadership	command,guidance,direction,management	The action of leading.
lesson	teaching,instruction,example,moral	Something learned from experience.
limitation	restriction,constraint,boundary,cap	A restrictive condition.
logic	reasoning,rationale,sense,argument	Reasoning conducted systematically.
meaning	significance,purpose,sense,import	What is meant; importance.
mechanism	process,system,means,device	A system of parts working together.
method	approach,technique,procedure,system	A way of doing something.
model	example,prototype,representation,plan	A simplified description of a system.
momentum	impetus,energy,drive,force	The force gained by movement.
motivation	incentive,drive,reason,inspiration	The desire to do something.
nature	character,essence,kind,type	The basic qualities of a person or thing.
need	requirement,necessity,demand,want	Something required.
network	system,grid,web,connection	An interconnected group.
norm	standard,rule,expectation,convention	Something that is usual or typical.
objective	goal,aim,target,purpose	Something aimed at; unbiased.
obstacle	barrier,hindrance,challenge,impediment	Something that blocks progress.
operation	action,process,procedure,task	The action of functioning.
opportunity	chance,opening,possibility,prospect	Favorable conditions for doing something.
outcome	result,consequence,product,effect	The way something turns out.
output	result,production,yield,product	Something produced.
overview	summary,synopsis,survey,outline	A general review.
paradigm	model,pattern,example,standard	A typical example of something.
parameter	limit,boundary,constraint,variable	A characteristic that defines a system.
pattern	design,model,template,sequence	A regular arrangement.
perspective	viewpoint,outlook,view,angle	A particular attitude.
philosophy	belief,principle,thought,worldview	The study of knowledge and existence.
plan	strategy,scheme,program,design	A detailed proposal for doing something.
potential	capability,possibility,capacity,promise	Qualities not yet developed.
practice	habit,custom,exercise,method	The actual application of an idea.
precision	accuracy,exactness,care,detail	The quality of being precise.
preference	choice,liking,favorite,inclination	A greater liking for one thing.
principle	rule,standard,belief,tenet	A fundamental truth.
priority	urgency,importance,precedence,preference	The most important item.
procedure	method,process,routine,practice	A series of actions.
process	method,procedure,system,operation	A series of steps.
progress	advancement,development,growth,improvement	Forward movement.
property	quality,attribute,characteristic,trait	A characteristic of something.
proposal	suggestion,plan,offer,recommendation	Something put forward for consideration.
purpose	aim,goal,intention,objective	The reason for doing something.
quality	standard,excellence,characteristic,value	The standard of something.
rationale	reason,justification,basis,logic	A set of reasons justifying something.
reality	truth,fact,actuality,existence	The world or the state of things as they are.
reason	cause,basis,rationale,explanation	A cause or justification.
recognition	acknowledgment,identification,appreciation,credit	Identification of worth.
reflection	thought,consideration,contemplation,image	Serious thought.
relevance	importance,pertinence,significance,bearing	The quality of being relevant.
reliability	dependability,consistency,trustworthiness	The quality of being reliable.
requirement	need,demand,necessity,condition	Something required.
responsibility	duty,obligation,accountability,role	The state of being responsible.
result	outcome,effect,consequence,product	A thing caused by an action.
role	part,function,position,duty	The function someone has.
scope	extent,range,scale,breadth	The extent of something.
significance	importance,meaning,weight,consequence	The quality of being significant.
situation	circumstances,position,scenario,state	The set of circumstances.
skill	ability,talent,expertise,technique	The ability to do something well.
solution	answer,fix,resolution,remedy	A means of solving a problem.
source	origin,cause,root,basis	The place from which something comes.
standard	criterion,norm,benchmark,level	A level of quality.
strategy	plan,approach,method,scheme	A plan to achieve a goal.
strength	power,capability,advantage,asset	A quality viewed as positive.
structure	framework,organization,arrangement,form	The way parts are arranged.
success	achievement,triumph,victory,accomplishment	The achievement of a goal.
support	assistance,help,backing,encouragement	The act of supporting.
system	structure,method,network,framework	A set of connected things.
task	job,assignment,duty,activity	A piece of work to be done.
technique	method,approach,skill,procedure	A way of carrying out a particular task.
theme	topic,subject,idea,thread	The subject of a talk or work.
theory	hypothesis,concept,idea,model	A set of principles explaining something.
tool	instrument,device,implement,resource	Something used to perform a task.
transformation	change,conversion,shift,metamorphosis	A thorough change.
trend	pattern,direction,tendency,movement	A general direction of change.
understanding	comprehension,grasp,insight,awareness	The ability to understand.
unity	oneness,solidarity,harmony,agreement	The state of being united.
value	worth,merit,importance,benefit	The importance of something.
variable	factor,element,parameter,quantity	Something that can change.
viewpoint	perspective,opinion,view,stance	A particular attitude.
vision	goal,dream,plan,aspiration	A mental image of the future.
weakness	flaw,shortcoming,limitation,fault	A weak point.
wisdom	knowledge,insight,judgment,experience	The quality of having good judgment.
work	effort,labor,task,activity	Activity involving effort.

# Adverbs
accurately	precisely,correctly,exactly,faithfully	In an accurate manner.
actively	energetically,dynamically,vigorously	In an active manner.
boldly	bravely,daringly,confidently,fearlessly	In a bold manner.
carefully	cautiously,meticulously,thoroughly,warily	With care.
clearly	plainly,obviously,evidently,distinctly	In a clear manner.
completely	fully,totally,entirely,wholly	In a complete manner.
consistently	regularly,steadily,constantly,reliably	In a consistent manner.
creatively	imaginatively,inventively,originally	In a creative manner.
effectively	successfully,efficiently,productively	In an effective manner.
efficiently	productively,competently,smoothly	In an efficient manner.
elegantly	gracefully,stylishly,simply,neatly	In an elegant manner.
enthusiastically	eagerly,keenly,zealously,passionately	In an enthusiastic manner.
explicitly	clearly,directly,specifically,precisely	In an explicit manner.
fairly	justly,equitably,impartially,reasonably	In a fair manner.
firmly	solidly,resolutely,steadfastly,confidently	In a firm manner.
fluently	smoothly,easily,readily,eloquently	In a fluent manner.
formally	officially,properly,conventionally	In a formal manner.
freely	openly,unreservedly,generously,readily	Without restriction.
gradually	slowly,step by step,progressively,incrementally	In a gradual manner.
honestly	truthfully,sincerely,openly,candidly	In an honest manner.
independently	autonomously,freely,separately,self-sufficiently	Without outside help.
intensely	strongly,powerfully,deeply,vigorously	In an intense manner.
methodically	systematically,orderly,carefully,thoroughly	In a methodical manner.
naturally	spontaneously,instinctively,normally,organically	In a natural manner.
objectively	impartially,fairly,neutrally,dispassionately	Without bias.
openly	honestly,frankly,candidly,transparently	Without concealment.
originally	initially,at first,creatively,uniquely	At first; in an original manner.
passionately	fervently,enthusiastically,intensely,ardently	With strong feeling.
precisely	exactly,accurately,carefully,correctly	In a precise manner.
quickly	rapidly,swiftly,speedily,fast	At great speed.
quietly	silently,softly,gently,calmly	In a quiet manner.
readily	willingly,easily,quickly,promptly	Without hesitation.
regularly	consistently,frequently,routinely,steadily	At regular intervals.
remarkably	notably,strikingly,impressively,surprisingly	In a remarkable manner.
seriously	gravely,earnestly,solemnly,severely	In a serious manner.
significantly	considerably,notably,substantially,markedly	In a significant manner.
simply	plainly,easily,naturally,basically	In a simple manner.
sincerely	genuinely,honestly,earnestly,truly	In a sincere manner.
skillfully	expertly,capably,proficiently,adeptly	With skill.
smoothly	easily,fluently,evenly,effortlessly	Without difficulty.
specifically	particularly,precisely,explicitly,distinctly	In a specific manner.
strongly	powerfully,firmly,intensely,forcefully	In a strong manner.
swiftly	quickly,rapidly,speedily,briskly	At great speed.
systematically	methodically,orderly,logically,consistently	In a systematic way.
thoroughly	completely,exhaustively,carefully,fully	In a thorough manner.
thoughtfully	carefully,considerately,reflectively,attentively	In a thoughtful manner.
truly	genuinely,actually,really,sincerely	In a true manner.
ultimately	finally,eventually,in the end,fundamentally	At the most basic level.
vividly	clearly,brightly,dramatically,powerfully	In a vivid manner.
willingly	readily,gladly,eagerly,voluntarily	Without reluctance.
wisely	sensibly,prudently,judiciously,carefully	In a wise manner.


# --- Extended batch 3: domain vocabulary and additional words ---

# Nature and environment
arid	dry,parched,barren,desert	Having little or no rain; very dry.
barren	empty,bare,desolate,infertile	Too poor to produce vegetation.
blizzard	snowstorm,squall,gale,tempest	A severe snowstorm with strong winds.
canopy	covering,roof,shelter,shade	A covering; the uppermost layer of trees.
cascade	waterfall,rush,flow,pour	A waterfall; to pour down rapidly.
cavern	cave,grotto,hollow,chamber	A large underground cave.
celestial	heavenly,astronomical,cosmic,divine	Positioned in the sky; relating to heaven.
cliff	bluff,precipice,escarpment,crag	A steep rock face.
climate	weather,atmosphere,conditions,environment	The weather conditions of a region.
cloud	mist,vapor,haze,fog	A mass of condensed water vapor.
coast	shore,beach,seaside,shoreline	The land near the sea.
current	flow,stream,tide,movement	A flowing movement of water or air.
dawn	sunrise,daybreak,morning,daylight	The first light of day.
delta	mouth,estuary,outlet,plain	An area of flat land where a river meets the sea.
drought	dryness,aridity,water shortage,parching	A prolonged period of low rainfall.
dune	sandhill,mound,ridge,heap	A hill of sand formed by wind.
dusk	twilight,sunset,evening,nightfall	The darker stage of twilight.
ecology	environment,ecosystem,habitat,biosphere	The study of relationships between organisms.
erosion	wearing away,degradation,corrosion,weathering	Wearing away by wind or water.
fauna	animals,wildlife,creatures,beasts	The animals of a particular region.
flora	plants,vegetation,greenery,botany	The plants of a particular region.
frost	ice,freeze,rime,chill	Ice crystals formed on surfaces.
glacier	ice sheet,icefield,snowfield,floe	A slowly moving mass of ice.
grove	wood,copse,thicket,orchard	A small group of trees.
habitat	home,environment,territory,ecosystem	The natural home of an organism.
haze	mist,fog,smog,vapor	A slight obscuring of the air.
horizon	skyline,distance,vista,outlook	The line where the earth meets the sky.
humid	damp,moist,muggy,sultry	Having high moisture in the air.
hurricane	cyclone,typhoon,storm,tempest	A tropical storm with violent winds.
island	isle,atoll,landmass,peninsula	A piece of land surrounded by water.
lagoon	pool,bay,inlet,lake	A body of water separated from the sea.
landscape	scenery,terrain,vista,countryside	All features of an area of land.
lush	verdant,green,abundant,fertile	Growing vigorously; richly abundant.
meadow	field,pasture,grassland,clearing	A piece of land covered with grass.
mesa	plateau,tableland,butte,highland	A flat-topped hill with steep sides.
mineral	ore,compound,substance,element	A solid inorganic substance.
mist	fog,haze,vapor,drizzle	Water droplets suspended in the air.
mountain	peak,summit,ridge,highland	A large natural elevation.
ocean	sea,water,deep,main	A vast body of salt water.
peninsula	headland,promontory,cape,spit	A piece of land almost surrounded by water.
plain	flat land,prairie,steppe,savanna	A large flat area of land.
plateau	highland,mesa,tableland,upland	An area of relatively level high ground.
prairie	grassland,plain,steppe,meadow	A large open area of grassland.
reef	shoal,rock,bar,ridge	A ridge of rock below the sea surface.
ridge	crest,spine,line,chain	A long narrow raised strip.
ripple	wave,undulation,tremor,vibration	A small wave on the surface of water.
river	stream,waterway,brook,current	A large natural stream of water.
rock	stone,boulder,crag,mineral	A large mass of stone.
savanna	grassland,plain,prairie,steppe	A grassy plain in tropical regions.
sediment	deposit,residue,silt,mud	Matter that settles at the bottom.
spring	fountain,source,wellspring,stream	A place where water emerges from the ground.
storm	tempest,gale,squall,blizzard	A violent disturbance of weather.
summit	peak,top,apex,crest	The highest point.
swamp	marsh,bog,fen,wetland	A low-lying area of waterlogged ground.
terrain	land,ground,topography,landscape	The features of the landscape.
tide	current,ebb,flow,surge	The rise and fall of the sea.
torrent	flood,rush,stream,deluge	A strong fast-moving stream.
valley	dale,glen,gorge,hollow	A low area between hills.
volcano	crater,vent,cone,eruption	A mountain with an opening in the crust.
waterfall	cascade,falls,cataract,torrent	Water falling from a height.
wilderness	wild,outback,bush,natural area	A wild uncultivated region.

# Science and technology
algorithm	procedure,method,process,formula	A set of rules for solving a problem.
analysis	examination,study,review,assessment	Detailed examination of something.
apparatus	device,equipment,instrument,mechanism	Equipment for a specific purpose.
circuit	loop,path,route,connection	A complete electrical path.
code	program,instructions,cipher,system	A system of signals; a computer program.
component	part,element,unit,piece	A part of a larger whole.
compute	calculate,reckon,process,figure	To calculate; to use a computer.
construct	build,create,assemble,make	To build by putting parts together.
database	repository,store,archive,records	An organized collection of data.
design	plan,blueprint,layout,scheme	A plan or drawing.
device	instrument,tool,gadget,apparatus	An item made for a purpose.
diagnose	identify,determine,detect,analyze	To identify a disease or problem.
digital	electronic,virtual,binary,computational	Relating to digital technology.
element	component,part,factor,substance	A component; a basic substance.
energy	power,force,strength,fuel	The capacity for activity; power.
equation	formula,expression,relation,statement	A mathematical statement of equality.
experiment	test,trial,study,investigation	A scientific procedure.
formula	equation,method,recipe,rule	A rule expressed in symbols.
frequency	rate,occurrence,regularity,incidence	The rate at which something occurs.
function	purpose,role,operation,use	The action something is designed to perform.
gravity	weight,mass,attraction,pull	The force attracting bodies toward earth.
hypothesis	theory,assumption,proposition,conjecture	A proposed explanation for testing.
interface	boundary,connection,link,interaction	A point where systems meet.
logic	reasoning,rationale,analysis,inference	Reasoned thinking.
mass	weight,bulk,volume,body	The quantity of matter in a body.
network	grid,system,web,structure	An interconnected system.
observation	watching,notice,finding,remark	The act of observing.
orbit	path,revolution,circuit,course	The path of one body around another.
particle	fragment,piece,bit,atom	A small piece of matter.
pattern	arrangement,design,structure,sequence	A repeated design or behavior.
procedure	method,process,routine,protocol	A series of steps.
property	quality,attribute,characteristic,feature	A characteristic of a substance.
reaction	response,answer,reply,outcome	A response to something.
resource	asset,supply,material,tool	A stock available for use.
sample	specimen,example,piece,subset	A small part representing the whole.
simulation	model,representation,imitation,replica	An imitation of a real-world process.
signal	indicator,cue,sign,message	Something conveying information.
solution	answer,resolution,mixture,fix	A means of solving a problem.
spectrum	range,scale,gamut,array	A broad range of something.
symbol	sign,mark,emblem,representation	Something used to represent something else.
technology	tools,techniques,systems,machinery	The application of scientific knowledge.
theory	hypothesis,concept,idea,explanation	A set of principles explaining observations.
velocity	speed,rate,pace,swiftness	The speed of something in a given direction.
variable	factor,element,quantity,parameter	A quantity that can change.

# Social and communication
address	speak to,talk to,refer to,greet	To speak or write to; a formal speech.
agreement	accord,settlement,deal,pact	An arrangement between parties.
announce	declare,proclaim,state,report	To make a public declaration.
appeal	request,plea,petition,attract	To make an earnest request.
attitude	outlook,stance,mindset,disposition	A settled way of thinking.
audience	listeners,viewers,crowd,public	The people gathered to hear.
authority	power,control,rule,command	The right to give orders.
communication	exchange,dialogue,conversation,message	The act of sharing information.
community	society,group,neighborhood,public	A group sharing common characteristics.
conflict	disagreement,struggle,dispute,clash	Serious incompatibility between parties.
conversation	dialogue,talk,discussion,exchange	An informal talk.
culture	society,tradition,heritage,customs	The arts and customs of a civilization.
debate	argument,discussion,dispute,forum	A formal discussion.
dialogue	conversation,talk,discussion,exchange	A conversation between people.
diplomacy	tact,negotiation,finesse,skill	The art of managing relations.
etiquette	manners,protocol,custom,courtesy	The conventional code of behavior.
group	team,community,crowd,assembly	A number of people together.
impression	effect,image,influence,sense	An effect produced on the mind.
interaction	communication,exchange,engagement,connection	Reciprocal action.
language	speech,tongue,words,dialect	Communication using speech or writing.
leadership	guidance,command,direction,authority	The action of leading.
meeting	gathering,assembly,conference,session	People coming together.
narrative	story,account,tale,description	A spoken or written account.
negotiation	discussion,bargaining,diplomacy,mediation	A formal discussion to reach agreement.
network	connections,contacts,web,community	A group of interconnected people.
presentation	display,talk,lecture,show	The act of presenting something.
public	community,society,people,population	People in general.
relationship	connection,bond,tie,link	The way people or things are connected.
reputation	standing,name,esteem,image	Beliefs held about someone.
society	community,culture,civilization,people	People living together in a community.
speech	talk,address,lecture,words	A formal address.
tradition	custom,practice,convention,heritage	A long-established custom.
trust	confidence,faith,belief,reliance	Firm belief in reliability.

# Art and creativity
composition	arrangement,structure,piece,work	The way parts are arranged; a musical work.
craft	skill,art,trade,technique	Skill in making things; an activity.
creativity	imagination,innovation,originality,artistry	The ability to create.
design	pattern,plan,style,artwork	A plan or drawing produced to show something.
expression	communication,conveyance,portrayal,voice	The process of expressing oneself.
imagination	creativity,inventiveness,vision,fantasy	The ability to form mental images.
interpretation	understanding,reading,analysis,rendition	An explanation of the meaning.
melody	tune,song,air,music	A sequence of musical notes.
narrative	story,tale,account,plot	An account of events.
original	unique,novel,first,primary	Present from the beginning; not a copy.
palette	colors,range,selection,spectrum	A range of colors.
prose	writing,text,composition	Written language in its ordinary form.
rhythm	beat,tempo,pattern,cadence	A strong regular repeated pattern.
style	manner,approach,way,fashion	A distinctive way of doing something.
theme	subject,topic,motif,idea	The subject of a work.
tone	quality,sound,mood,manner	The quality of a sound; general character.

# Character and virtue
compassion	empathy,sympathy,kindness,mercy	Concern for others' suffering.
courage	bravery,nerve,valor,boldness	The ability to face danger.
dignity	self-respect,honor,pride,esteem	The quality of being worthy of respect.
empathy	understanding,compassion,sensitivity	The ability to share another's feelings.
fairness	justice,equity,impartiality,honesty	The quality of treating people equally.
fortitude	strength,courage,resilience,endurance	Courage in pain or adversity.
generosity	liberality,charity,munificence,giving	Willingness to give.
goodness	virtue,morality,kindness,merit	The quality of being good.
honor	integrity,dignity,respect,glory	High respect; good moral character.
humility	modesty,meekness,simplicity,unpretentiousness	The quality of being humble.
kindness	goodwill,compassion,benevolence,warmth	The quality of being friendly and generous.
loyalty	fidelity,faithfulness,devotion,allegiance	Giving constant support.
mercy	compassion,leniency,grace,forgiveness	Compassion shown to offenders.
patience	tolerance,forbearance,endurance,calmness	The ability to wait without distress.
perseverance	persistence,determination,tenacity,resolve	Continued effort despite difficulty.
sincerity	genuineness,honesty,truthfulness,openness	The quality of being sincere.
temperance	moderation,restraint,self-control,sobriety	Moderation and self-restraint.
tolerance	acceptance,patience,open-mindedness	Willingness to accept differences.
valor	bravery,courage,heroism,gallantry	Great courage in the face of danger.
virtue	goodness,morality,integrity,merit	Behavior showing moral standards.

# Time and change
aftermath	consequence,result,effect,outcome	The period following an event.
ancient	old,aged,archaic,antique	Belonging to the very distant past.
brief	short,fleeting,temporary,transient	Lasting only a short time.
bygone	past,former,historical,old	Belonging to an earlier time.
century	era,period,age,100 years	A period of 100 years.
change	alteration,shift,transition,transformation	The act of making different.
chronology	timeline,sequence,order,history	The arrangement of events in order.
contemporary	modern,current,present,recent	Belonging to the present time.
cycle	pattern,rotation,sequence,repetition	A set of recurring events.
delay	postponement,wait,pause,deferral	A period of time by which something is late.
duration	period,length,span,time	The length of time something lasts.
epoch	era,age,period,time	A period of time in history.
era	period,age,time,epoch	A long and distinct period.
eventual	ultimate,final,resulting,inevitable	Happening at some later time.
fleeting	brief,transient,passing,momentary	Lasting only a short time.
frequent	regular,common,repeated,constant	Occurring often.
future	prospect,tomorrow,coming time,days ahead	Time to come.
heritage	tradition,legacy,inheritance,history	Valued things passed down from the past.
history	past,record,chronicle,story	The study of past events.
imminent	impending,approaching,near,coming	About to happen.
instant	moment,second,flash,split second	A very short time.
interval	gap,pause,break,period	A space of time between events.
legacy	heritage,inheritance,bequest,endowment	Something handed down from the past.
milestone	landmark,marker,achievement,event	A significant point in development.
modern	contemporary,current,new,recent	Relating to the present time.
moment	instant,second,point,time	A very brief period of time.
ongoing	continuing,unfinished,evolving,in progress	Continuing; still in progress.
outcome	result,consequence,effect,end	The way something turns out.
pause	break,interval,rest,stop	A temporary stop.
period	time,era,age,phase	A length of time.
phase	stage,step,period,cycle	A distinct period in a process.
preceding	previous,prior,earlier,foregoing	Coming before.
previous	former,prior,earlier,past	Existing or occurring before.
recent	new,latest,current,modern	Having happened lately.
sequence	order,series,progression,chain	A particular order of events.
simultaneous	concurrent,coinciding,parallel,synchronous	Occurring at the same time.
temporary	brief,short-lived,transient,provisional	Lasting for only a short time.
timeline	schedule,sequence,calendar,plan	A graphic representation of a period.
transition	change,shift,transformation,move	The process of changing from one state to another.
trend	direction,tendency,drift,movement	A general direction of change.


# --- Extended batch 4: final words to reach ~2000 ---

# More verbs
abolish	eliminate,end,do away with,eradicate	To formally put an end to a system.
accuse	charge,blame,allege,indict	To say someone has done something wrong.
act	perform,behave,function,do	To take action; to perform.
add	include,append,attach,supplement	To put together so as to increase.
address	speak to,tackle,deal with,handle	To deal with an issue.
adopt	take on,embrace,accept,follow	To take up and use.
advocate	champion,promote,support,recommend	To publicly support.
agree	concur,consent,assent,comply	To have the same opinion; to give consent.
appraise	assess,evaluate,judge,estimate	To assess the value or quality of.
choose	select,pick,decide,opt	To pick out from options.
confer	grant,bestow,give,award	To grant a title or honor.
consolidate	strengthen,combine,merge,unify	To make or become stronger; to combine.
embrace	accept,adopt,take up,welcome	To accept willingly; to hold closely.
estimate	assess,calculate,judge,approximate	To roughly calculate.
lead	guide,direct,head,conduct	To be in charge; to guide.

# Human body and health
disease	illness,sickness,condition,ailment	A disorder in a living organism.
fatigue	weariness,exhaustion,tiredness,lethargy	Extreme tiredness.
health	wellness,fitness,wellbeing,soundness	The state of being free from illness.
immune	resistant,protected,unsusceptible,safe	Resistant to a disease or harmful influence.
injury	wound,harm,damage,trauma	Harm done to the body.
medicate	treat,dose,prescribe,remedy	To give medicine to.
mental	psychological,cognitive,intellectual	Relating to the mind.
nutrition	nourishment,diet,feeding,sustenance	The process of eating and absorbing food.
physical	bodily,corporeal,material,tangible	Relating to the body.
recover	heal,mend,improve,bounce back	To return to health.
remedy	cure,treatment,medicine,solution	A medicine or treatment.
rest	sleep,relaxation,repose,break	Ceasing work; sleep.
treatment	care,therapy,remedy,medication	Medical care of an illness.
vital	essential,critical,crucial,necessary	Absolutely necessary; relating to life.
wellness	health,wellbeing,fitness,vigor	The state of being in good health.

# Learning and education
academy	school,institution,college,institute	A place of learning.
curriculum	syllabus,program,course,subjects	The subjects in an educational program.
discipline	subject,field,study,control	A branch of knowledge.
education	learning,schooling,training,instruction	The process of educating.
examination	test,quiz,assessment,inspection	A formal test.
exercise	practice,drill,activity,workout	Activity for training or improvement.
graduate	complete,finish,qualify,pass	To successfully complete a course.
instruction	teaching,direction,guidance,lesson	Detailed information on how to do something.
lesson	class,tutorial,session,lecture	A period of learning.
literacy	reading ability,fluency,skill,competency	The ability to read and write.
practice	exercise,drill,rehearsal,habit	Repeated exercise to improve skill.
qualification	credential,certificate,degree,skill	Training or education for a job.
research	study,investigation,inquiry,analysis	Systematic investigation.
scholarship	learning,knowledge,study,grant	Academic achievement; a grant for study.
student	learner,pupil,scholar,trainee	A person who studies.
teacher	instructor,educator,tutor,mentor	A person who teaches.
training	education,instruction,preparation,drill	Teaching particular skills.

# Business and work
assignment	task,job,duty,project	A piece of work given to someone.
budget	funds,allocation,estimate,plan	A financial plan.
career	profession,vocation,calling,occupation	An occupation undertaken for a long time.
colleague	co-worker,associate,partner,peer	A person one works with.
deadline	due date,cutoff,limit,target	A date by which something must be done.
delivery	distribution,provision,supply,handing over	The act of delivering.
department	division,section,unit,branch	A section of an organization.
employee	worker,staff,team member,personnel	A person employed for wages.
leader	head,chief,director,manager	A person in charge.
management	administration,oversight,control,direction	The process of managing.
performance	execution,output,result,achievement	The action of accomplishing a task.
policy	rule,procedure,guideline,regulation	A course of action.
productivity	output,efficiency,performance,yield	The effectiveness of effort.
project	task,endeavor,scheme,undertaking	An individual or collaborative enterprise.
revenue	income,earnings,profit,returns	The income of an organization.
schedule	timetable,plan,agenda,program	A plan of intended events.
target	goal,aim,objective,mark	An objective to be achieved.
team	group,crew,unit,squad	A group working together.
workflow	process,procedure,system,method	The sequence of tasks in a process.

# Feelings and emotions
admiration	respect,esteem,appreciation,reverence	A feeling of wonder and respect.
affection	fondness,love,attachment,warmth	A gentle feeling of fondness.
anguish	agony,pain,torment,distress	Severe mental or physical pain.
apprehension	anxiety,dread,unease,worry	Anxiety about the future.
awe	wonder,amazement,reverence,astonishment	A feeling of wonder and respect.
bliss	happiness,joy,euphoria,delight	Perfect happiness.
calm	serenity,peace,tranquility,composure	A peaceful state.
contentment	satisfaction,happiness,peace,fulfillment	A state of satisfaction.
curiosity	inquisitiveness,interest,wonder,questioning	A desire to know.
delight	joy,pleasure,happiness,gladness	A feeling of great pleasure.
despair	hopelessness,despondency,anguish,gloom	Complete loss of hope.
disgust	revulsion,loathing,distaste,contempt	Strong disapproval or dislike.
ecstasy	euphoria,rapture,bliss,elation	An overwhelming feeling of happiness.
elation	joy,happiness,euphoria,delight	Great happiness and exhilaration.
envy	jealousy,resentment,covetousness,begrudging	Discontent at another's advantages.
euphoria	elation,ecstasy,joy,bliss	A feeling or state of intense excitement.
excitement	enthusiasm,eagerness,thrill,exhilaration	A feeling of great enthusiasm.
fondness	affection,liking,warmth,tenderness	Affection or liking for someone.
frustration	annoyance,exasperation,dissatisfaction,irritation	The feeling of being upset.
gladness	happiness,joy,pleasure,delight	Feeling of happiness.
guilt	remorse,shame,regret,self-reproach	A feeling of having done wrong.
happiness	joy,contentment,delight,pleasure	The state of being happy.
hostility	aggression,antagonism,enmity,hatred	Unfriendly behavior.
indignation	outrage,resentment,anger,displeasure	Anger at perceived unfair treatment.
inspiration	motivation,encouragement,stimulus,spark	Something that stimulates creativity.
longing	yearning,desire,craving,wish	A yearning desire.
melancholy	sadness,gloom,despondency,depression	A deep feeling of sadness.
misery	wretchedness,suffering,unhappiness,distress	A state of great suffering.
nostalgia	sentimentality,longing,homesickness,wistfulness	A sentimental longing for the past.
pride	self-esteem,dignity,satisfaction,honor	A feeling of deep pleasure from achievements.
regret	remorse,guilt,sorrow,disappointment	A feeling of sadness over something done.
relief	comfort,ease,consolation,reassurance	The removal of distress.
resentment	bitterness,animosity,anger,indignation	Bitter feelings about treatment received.
satisfaction	contentment,fulfillment,pleasure,gratification	Fulfillment of needs or desires.
serenity	calm,tranquility,peace,stillness	The state of being calm.
shame	embarrassment,guilt,humiliation,remorse	A feeling of humiliation over wrong actions.
solace	comfort,consolation,relief,support	Comfort in sadness or disappointment.
sympathy	compassion,pity,understanding,empathy	Feelings of pity for another.
wonder	amazement,awe,astonishment,marvel	A feeling of surprise and admiration.

# Miscellaneous useful words
alternative	option,choice,substitute,other	One of two or more available possibilities.
array	range,variety,selection,collection	An ordered arrangement; a wide variety.
aspect	element,feature,dimension,facet	A particular part or feature.
circumstance	situation,condition,factor,detail	A condition relating to an event.
clue	hint,sign,indication,lead	A piece of evidence helping to solve.
collection	group,set,assortment,compilation	A group of things gathered together.
combination	mixture,blend,merge,union	The joining of two or more things.
comparison	contrast,parallel,similarity,analogy	The act of comparing.
condition	state,situation,circumstance,requirement	The state of something; a requirement.
connection	link,bond,relationship,tie	A relationship in which things are linked.
consideration	thought,attention,care,factor	Careful thought; a fact taken into account.
core	center,heart,essence,nucleus	The central part; the most important part.
degree	level,extent,amount,stage	The amount to which something extends.
feature	characteristic,quality,attribute,aspect	A distinctive attribute.
key	essential,crucial,main,central	Most important.
matter	substance,issue,affair,concern	A subject of concern; physical substance.
means	method,way,resource,instrument	A way of doing something.
notion	idea,concept,belief,thought	A conception or belief.
point	detail,fact,item,aspect	A fact or idea; an exact location.
range	scope,extent,variety,span	The limits of variation; a variety.
reference	source,citation,mention,allusion	A mention of something.
scenario	situation,case,context,picture	A possible sequence of events.
series	sequence,chain,succession,set	A number of things of the same kind.
stage	phase,step,period,point	A point in a process.
step	stage,move,action,procedure	An action in a series.
subject	topic,theme,matter,issue	A person or thing being discussed.
term	word,expression,period,condition	A word or phrase; a period.
topic	subject,theme,issue,matter	A matter being discussed.
type	kind,sort,variety,category	A category of things.
variety	range,diversity,assortment,mix	A number of different kinds.
version	form,variant,edition,copy	A particular form of something.

